The market is strong because the [music]
economy is strong overall.
>> Ultimately, what's going to drive this
market higher is going to be the AI
trade. I think that the entire market is
one trade and I think right now we are
in the boom part of the trade.
>> Certainly tech or AI has soaked up all
the oxygen in the room here.
>> We're forgetting that there's a lot of
other industries. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with [music] Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts [music] right now.
Coming into Monday, facing down a triple
threat. Tech stocks looking to bounce
following the worst day of losses this
year as another round of strikes between
Iran and Israel descending crude higher.
Rates [music] are staying elevated
heading into the latest read on
inflation. investors pricing at a hike.
>> They're pricing in a hike because
Jonathan, we had a very strong jobs
report on Friday. At the same time, we
have elevated inflation [music]
potentially. We're going to see even
more of that as the conflict in Iran
continues. Now, you even have Goldman
over the weekend saying [music] they do
not expect a cut. A lot of banks are
going to have to shift how they think
about this market. [music] Interesting
though, I was with the president over
the weekend. He still is pushing for a
rate decrease when it comes to the
Federal Reserve.
>> The president's pushing back. The
market's pricing it in. Goldman's
[music] dropping his call for rate cuts
this year. BMP Parabar making a call for
a rate hike starting later this year.
We'll spend some time on that. We'll
spend some time on this crude [music]
bouncing back. WTI and Brent Brent crude
this morning edging higher by 4% $97 a
barrel. Iran striking Israel. The
president saying don't strike back.
Israel striking back.
>> Right. The president told FT when it
comes to Netanyahu that he wouldn't have
a choice. I call the shots. He doesn't
call the shots. This could be incredibly
frustrating for this White House because
now they don't really have a say in what
Iran is doing clearly and they don't
have a say right now [music] what's
going on in terms of Israel and how
they're going to react. Jonathan, we are
more than 100 days into [music] this
conflict. And with Iran, they've always
said that Lebanon was one of their red
lines, but [music] that's just been
rhetoric. What we've seen the past 24
hours is now they've taken that rhetoric
and they turned it into action.
>> That's unsettling. The bond market as
well this morning that move in crude
yields up across the curve 10s this
morning up by 3 456 2's this morning up
by two 417 and closing in on 420. Check
out equities on the S&P 500 on the
NASDAQ on the Russell. On the S&P
[music] worst day of the year on Friday
on the NASDAQ the worst day since
liberation week for the semis the worst
day since 2020. [music]
Futures up this morning on the NASDAQ by
0.6%. and Jensen blog of Nvidia, you
should be very happy because now you can
buy at a discount. [music]
>> So he's saying if you want to get into
this market, this pullback looks right
for you to join in. Uh the problem is
Jonathan, a lot of people are going to
be thinking about this sell-off. Is it
because of the fact that [music] now the
market is pricing in a hike in the
United States? Is this potentially just
panic selling or did we just go too far
too quickly when it comes [music] to the
AI trade?
>> We have got a lot to work through this
week. inflation data later this week and
then the Federal Reserve just a week
away [music] next Wednesday. Kevin Walsh
stepping up and facing down some big
calls for maybe later this year hike in
interest rates. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up [music] with Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth as investors
come down from AI Euphoria, John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group as Iran and
Israel exchange fresh strikes and
frankly of HSBC as Jensen Wang suggests
buying the dip. We begin this out with
stocks looking to recover following the
biggest one-day loss of the year so far.
Cam Dawson of New Edge Wealth writing,
"After a nineweek winning streak at a
break neck pace, we should not be
surprised to see some comedown from the
huge gains." Cam is joining us for the
air and joins us now for more. Cam, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> We've been told repeatedly the
fundamentals are great, but the
technicals are stretched. The technicals
beginning to bite.
>> Yeah, beta bites both ways. We had been
enjoying a massive beta rally where we
got to some pretty big extremes come
midweek last week. 76% above the 200 day
moving average on the socks. You got the
Cosby up to 112%
above its 200 day moving average. That
would qualify as a classic price bubble.
And so we're seeing this unwind just out
of these really big overbought
conditions. And what's notable is that
we're nowhere near oversold just to get
to your 50-day moving average on the S
or on the socks. she would be down
another 13%. And yes, the fundamentals
are great, but you had seen these stocks
get so overbought, move so far, so fast.
It was sort of like seeing Icarus fly
closer and closer to the sun and getting
a little bit of that wax melting. And
>> do you think then at this point there is
an air pocket then for further declines
from here?
>> Yeah, I look I think it would be
actually a very healthy thing to see. I
think the other thing that's really
notable to to focus on is the fact that
you had seen valuations already reset
back up to their 2026 highs. So the
whole dynamic that had happened at the
start of the year is that valuations
derated significantly to about 17 times
on the socks just because earnings
estimates went up so much. Now we've
effectively recloed that gap where we've
seen valuations get back up to 28 times
forward. So arguably you could say that
the easy part is over meaning the
valuation reset is over and now the
question is do you still see earnings
upside for these semiconductors from
here
>> is the next catalyst potentially the
inflation data as Jonathan mentioned
later in the week.
>> Well certainly for the broad markets and
it'll be fascinating because we could
print a four handle on headline CPI. We
could also print a six handle on
headline PPI. And certainly if we're
looking at the bond market, that would
put upward pressure on yields. And
you're already pricing in 117% chance of
a hike by the end of the year for the
for the Fed, which just suggests that
could we even see more upside on that if
you get a hot CPI or PPI print.
>> A forehandle on this inflation would
basically mean what for Kevin Worsh.
Yeah, it means his back is very firmly
in a corner and he has very few ways to
argue that the Fed should be cutting
rates at this point. Whether you're
looking at the labor market which
remains very resilient or you're looking
at the inflation picture and I think the
other important part about the inflation
picture is that you're seeing this
upward pressure on core CPI as well. So
yes, wages remain very subdued and I
think that's a really important point
about this employment picture. You're
not seeing upward pressure on wages, but
you're still seeing things like that
super core CPI core services x housing
move higher, which just suggests that
this can't be something that you
completely look through.
>> Lisa has talked about this and we'll
catch up with Lisa a little bit later
this morning. She's found herself in Rio
in Brazil, believe it or not. We'll
spend some time on that in a few hours
time. Lisa's talked about the fact that
inflation is close to four, unemployment
is close to four. And here we are having
a discussion about dropping an easing
bus, not hiking rates, but dropping an
easing bus. Can you expect anything more
than just that at next week's meeting?
>> Well, I would add one other peculiar
factor, which is that if you look at
5-year 5-year inflation spreads or
inflation break evens, they remain very
contained. So, you have a Fed that's not
necessarily saying that we're going to
fight inflation with a lot of gusto. And
yet, the bond market says, "Yeah, but we
think you're going to be successful at
getting back to 2%." So I think the
question will be is as we move through
later in the year, if inflation still
continues to trend higher, if energy
prices continue to push higher, will we
start to see the long ending of the
curve start to become a little bit more
dubious of the Fed's willingness to
fight inflation? And if that's the case,
that really is the thing that forces the
Fed's hand to start coming out and
talking a much tougher game than just
saying, "Gh, we're not easing."
>> So twos out to tens, we've seen some
flattening. Would you expect some
steepening to come back into the curve?
I I I think that's certainly possible
this week, mostly if we continue to see
resilient economic data. The the
relationship to watch is the fact that
you're seeing economic surprises
continue to push higher, that's putting
a lot more upward pressure on the back
end of the curve, but you've seen a lot
more upside on the front end of the
curve, which is why you're seeing that
flattening. So, if you see the hotter
inflation data and if you see things
like the NFIB survey, which we also get
this week, show some improvement, that
could be another reason why we see that
backend back up. This week is not just
about the data. It's also about supply.
IPOs, SpaceX very much on the horizon.
We've seen an upsize capital raise from
Alphabet. The FT reporting on Friday
that Meta is considering doing something
similar that contributed to this move.
Corporate America is telling you it's a
good time to sell equity. Why is it a
good time for investors to buy it?
>> Yeah. Well, they're telling you it's a
good time that they need more money in
order to fund this AI capex. And this
whole bull market is built on the idea
that the MAG7 would take their
incredible formerly uh very strong
balance sheets and use them to fund this
massive capex spending. And the question
is how do we get to that next leg
higher? We've already gone from
expecting 10% growth in AI revenue or AI
capex spending last this time last year
to up to 80% growth for this year.
People are expecting that now to go from
1 trillion up to 1.2 trillion. to fund
that gap, you need more capital. And
what this could be a sign is that maybe
we're running a little bit long and
thinking that maybe we can't turn to
debt markets as much. And so it
certainly suggests that in order for
this to keep running, you have to have a
continued bull market, which just means
that that there's so much pressure for
the AI capex to continue to deliver.
>> We spoke about this last time you were
on. Where are people taking capital from
to then make sure they can get in on
these IPOs? Yeah, I mean it certainly
seems to be in areas of other risk
assets. People have been thinking maybe
that's where some of the selling
pressure is coming from things like
Bitcoin in order to make room for it.
But we still come back to the point that
there are a lot of investors that don't
have a choice in order to make room for
some of these these names and these IPOs
simply because they're being forced into
indices at a much more rapid pace. I
think the turn last week though from S&P
500, S&P Global of effectively saying
that they are not going to relax their
profitability rule was a very important
potential sentiment shift and how
quickly these things could be included
in that big index. But I think at the
end of the day, that's a really good
thing for index investors when we think
about long-term quality.
>> Let's bring up Bitcoin. Cam, you
mentioned Bitcoin. Bitcoin took out the
lows of the year in Friday's session,
down 50% from the start of October. We
caught up with Lisa Shannon of Morgan
Stanley recently. You asked the question
about whether we're seeing signs of
things tightening up a little bit.
Bitcoin is a liquidity oriented asset.
When financial conditions are beginning
to tighten, it falls back over the next
12 to 18 months. Lisa's words, as
everyone is issuing debt, as everyone is
issuing stock, we're going to start to
see things tighten up here. Would you
expect to see further signs of that in
the year ahead? Yeah, I think the most
interesting thing over the course of the
last let's call it nine months is that
Bitcoin has completely sat out on this
risk rally. So if we think about the
cohort of things that typically go
together in liquidity sensitive areas,
it's the least profitable companies.
It's the least it's most speculative
parts of the market and Bitcoin, but
you've seen Bitcoin sit out on the
speculative rally, but you have things
like a 60% rally in unprofitable tech
over the course of the last two months.
So the question would be is that is
Bitcoin effectively a harbinger of
things to come for those other
speculative parts of the market and
certainly we're starting to see that
unwind on Friday as we saw a lot of that
beta and momentum come out of the
market.
>> Cam going to stick with us I'm happy to
say through the air Cameron Dawson there
of New Edge Wealth. Let's get you an
update on news worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn
has more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Good morning John. Thank you. President
Donald Trump demanding that Iran and
Israel stop shooting [music]
immediately. Trump reiterating his
demand in a truth social this morning
after the two countries exchanged
[music] missile strikes overnight. It's
one of the most serious tests of the
ceasefire that took effect two [music]
months ago.
Nvidia and SK Heinix are collaborating
on designing future generations of
memory chips for AI. The announcement
comes as Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong visits
Soul for meetings [music] with his
company's Korean partners.
If you want to go to game three of the
NBA finals tonight, it's going to cost
you the average price for a ticket about
>> [music]
>> $8,000. Amarie asked President Trump
what he thought of the sky high prices.
>> Well, I know, but they can watch it on
television. It's sort of semire to watch
it on television, but that's the way
life goes.
>> Trump will be at Madison Square Garden
tonight for tonight's [music] game.
Watch parties outside the garden have
been cancelled for security reasons. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Watch [music] parties are canled
outside MSG. You've got to arrive two
hours early if you can afford the
tickets. I wonder what kind of reception
[music] the president might get a little
bit later this evening.
>> You can't bring your bags in after you
maybe spent 810 or if you're maybe a
little crazy $250,000 [music]
on a ticket to go watch the Knicks play.
I don't know. I think it's going to be a
mixed reception. [music] I've been to
the Yankee game with the president and
it was a mixed reception. I think this
could potentially be a bit similar.
Looking forward to the game a little
[music] bit later this evening. Up next
on the program. We'll catch up with the
latest in the Middle East. The
president's red line.
>> We have the ultimate blockade. Um I
don't consider that a war. My red line
would be if I think I wasn't going to
make a deal or if I wasn't going to make
a deal fast enough.
>> John Lieieber of Eurasia Group joins us
next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[music]
Coming up this week, absolutely stacked
with economic data and a big event
coming up later this week. CPI dropping
[music] on Wednesday. Look out for that.
The final read on inflation going into
the Fed's next meeting. The Fed's next
meeting, Chair Walsh's first meeting. On
Thursday, we should price an IPO that's
basically already priced. Heading into
Friday, where [music] SpaceX is set to
begin trading. A week ago, we'd say what
a time for an IPO. Stocks are buoyant.
Record highs, 9week winning streak, up
20% from the lows. What a difference a
day makes. Friday selloff and all of a
sudden we start to think about maybe the
windows closing for these mega IPOs
>> as we just heard from [music] Cameron
potentially what does it mean if we get
very hot inflation before the SpaceX IPO
does that also put [music] another point
pressure point on financial markets
because people are going to have to
price in wow maybe the Fed really does
need to hike [music] rates if we have
officially a forandle on inflation
>> futures bouncing back this morning up a
third on the S&P 500 [music]
Friday pretty dreadful for tech names
the semis have absolutely completely
ripped off the lows of March. They fell
back down to earth, down about 10% in
[music] a single session this morning on
the NASDAQ up by 0.7. Amarie mentioned
the tension in the bond market. Let's
talk about it. 10 with the first close
above 450 in about 2 weeks. 456 this
morning and up another three basis
points. New high for the year [music] on
a 2-year 417. And much of the move more
recently had nothing to do with energy.
Now this morning it does. Crude, Brent,
WTI pushing higher by 4%. and Brent
crude 9685
under surveillance this morning the
president's red line
>> we have the ultimate blockade u I don't
consider that a war my red line would be
if I think I wasn't going to make a deal
or if I wasn't going to make a deal fast
enough so we're having very good
negotiations with the people that are
leading the country now we'll either
have something done fairly quickly or
we'll finish it out mil militarily
>> so here's the latest this morning
retaliating against Iranian missile
strikes defying President Trump's
request for restraint. The president
telling the Financial Times that Israel
will have to accept any deal between
Washington and Thran because he quote
calls all the shots. Bluebeck's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Tyler,
did the president call the shots over
the weekend?
>> Well, John, at this point, it doesn't
appear that he was able to keep a lid on
the fighting as this White House and
President Trump have directly said that
they do not want to see this renewed
escalation because it could risk a
diplomatic deal. In fact, Axios had
reported that President Trump asked
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu directly to hold off on
retaliation in a bid to give diplomacy
more time. And of course, as the White
House faces domestic pressure to get an
end to this conflict, but that didn't
happen. And the president also went on
in that NBC News interview to say that
he wants Israel to be quote more
surgical in its response to the
Iranianbacked militant group Hezbollah.
Because as you well know, Iran has long
maintained at this point that a
ceasefire in Lebanon needs to be rolled
into any broader US Iran deal. Though
both sides have said that that operation
against the militant group is a separate
front. But at this point, uh it's
becoming a huge sticking point in these
ongoing negotiations. Though we should
say that Israel and Lebanon did reach an
extended ceasefire agreement just last
week, though Hezbollah rejected the
terms. But at this point, it's really
putting this focus point on how uh
Iran's support of proxy militia groups,
not just Hezbollah, but now also the
Iranianbacked Houthies in Yemen could
risk derailing a deal. John, new this
morning, we got a statement out of this
militia group saying that they are going
to declare a ban on all Israeli ships in
the Red Sea. The statement didn't go so
far as to say that this would extend to
all commercial shipping. though it does
risk uh derailing this key bypass route
when it comes to the straight of her
just further complicating these ongoing
negotiations.
>> Tyler Kendall down in Washington DC.
Tyler, thank you. We'll catch up with
Tyler in the next hour. To build on the
conversation, John Lieieber of Urasia
Group joined us now for more. John,
welcome to the program. The president
looks committed to deescalation. Israel
and Iran do not. Where does that leave
the president's position?
>> He's in a tough spot for sure. Um, and
you know, like you said, he he told
Netanyahu not to fire, and he did. Uh,
President Prime Minister Netanyahu is
under quite a bit of pressure
domestically in order to show that he's
not uh Trump's puppet and that he can
continue to stand up to the Iranians,
which is going to make him more and more
difficult to control as Trump is asking
for deescalation. Now I think that the
two relevant things things that happened
this morning were one uh the Iranians
threatening regional energy
infrastructure which is suggest a
complete collapse of the ceasefire if
that happens because it would bring the
other Gulf partners back into the the
battle. And then two is the fact that
the Houthis are now in this war in a way
they haven't been in the past. They've
largely set this out. They're now saying
they're going to target Israeli ships
through the region. Um, as as as Tyler
said, that doesn't mean they're t
targeting all ships, but the fact is
that they're now the war is, I think, on
the verge of threatening to expand and
Trump has to scramble hard in order to
keep that from happening. And it's
unclear if he has the ability to to sway
Netanyahu or or have any sway in Iran
either.
>> Do you think the United States has to
come in at this point given? Do you
think this is a red line for them in
terms of the ceasefire?
>> Come in militarily? No, I don't think
so. I think that they uh I think the US
wants to stay out of this. the US is
positioned to uh continue this fight. Uh
they've got still assets in the region
and we think it's possible that this
ceasefire collapses altogether and the
US and Iran go back to fighting. But
with exchange of missiles between just
Israel and Iran, if if it stays that
way, I think the US can stay out of it.
It becomes more problematic if the
Iranians start targeting Gulf energy
infrastructure. Uh and and in their
statement this morning, what they said
was that any attacks that happen are
ultimately the responsibility of the
United States. So they know that the
channel to bring the US back into this
is through that those energy
infrastructure fights uh attacks. But in
the meantime, if this just remains
between Israel and Iran, I think that's
sustainable for the US at least for a
short period of time.
>> Well, Iran warned that the US is the one
that bears responsibility for Israel's
actions. So where does this leave the
talks right now? Have they just
completely collapsed?
>> No, I don't think they've completely
collapsed. I I think we have to see what
happens if the missiles start stop
flying today or not. I would expect that
they do. Trump is very incentivized to
get a deal. What we've been hearing over
the weekend was that a deal is ever
closer. Now, of course, we've been
hearing that for weeks and there's been
very incremental progress made on this
deal coming together, but I do think
that they are getting closer and
ultimately that's what President Trump
wants because a return to the US
engaging in the war is essentially
driving into a box canyon they can't
really get out of given the Iranian
missile capacity.
>> How serious is this complete and total
ban on Israeli shipping in the Red Sea
given that this has been such an
important offset for Saudi Arabia
shipping of oil? Uh, is this something
that we could see cascade into even
higher prices?
>> It could. I, you know, the fact that
they are only talking about Israeli
shipping right now and not all shipping.
So, the Saudis still seem to have a free
pass, I think is very a positive sign.
Um, you know, the Houthis have been
staying out of this, we think largely at
the behest of some of of the Saudis and
others in the region. um that probably
continues and and the fact that this
escalation escalation is so relatively
measured I think means that this isn't a
tipping point into threatening the rest
of the shipping lane yet but of course
shipping is still significantly down
from where it was you know preocctober
7th
>> let's deal with that word yet cam's
taken us on to the right question I
think mentioned it the moment she walked
into the studio this morning the Red Sea
and the Houthies John what is stopping
them what does Saudi Saudi Arabia have
over them right now because there's no
love lost between those two.
>> I I think it it might just be bags of
cash. I mean, I think that they uh I
think that the Saudis have been very
aggressive about keeping the Saudis on
on their side and keeping them out of
this. And uh you know, the Houthis are
are weakened just like every other
Iranian proxy group. Iran has not had
the ability to support Hezbollah the way
they used to. And they don't have the
ability ability to support the Houthis
either. And I think that gives the uh
the Saudis an opportunity to to to pay
them off essentially and say don't come
into this. um you know we won't we don't
this is not your war and we can help you
if you need it and I think that's what's
going on
>> but they are taking baby steps and
declaring a total ban of Israeli
maritime navigation if we were to see
the Babel Mandeb straight become closed
John what kind of response could we see
from this White House because that would
be the second choke point closed in the
Gulf
>> yeah great question I think that they I
mean ultimately they blame this on the
Iranians um if that happens that could
be the thing that brings the US back
into the uh the conflict um because of
its effect on the Gulf shippers who are
the ones who are asking the US to stay
out of this and asking for deescalation
right now. But that would put us in a in
a totally different trajectory. Uh and
again, we're not there yet. So, you
know, I think that they uh you know, it
is but it is a meaningful sign that the
Houthis are now reacting to the latest
volley of uh Israeli attacks when they
didn't do anything earlier. So,
something's changed. I'm not sure uh we
know what yet.
>> John, I appreciate the update. Thank
you, sir. John Lieieber there of Eurasia
Group. The Israeli strike in Lebanon,
Iran supporting their proxies.
Ultimately, the president turning around
and saying don't strike back and then
Israel doing just that. Getting a little
messier as the days go by.
>> And it's even getting messier this
morning. The president 5:36 a.m. he's
up. Israel and Iran must immediately
stop quote shooting, says the president.
And now you see these baby steps of the
Houthis getting involved just when it
comes to Israeli maritime shipping. But
the next question is, well, when does
this expand beyond that?
>> Cam, just quickly, is this starting to
become a market event again? It's kind
of off to the side for a number of
months. Is it back on the center table
again?
>> I think the price that matters for
markets is the average gasoline price,
and it's come down over the course of
the last couple of weeks. But given this
move higher in oil prices, it's likely
to climb higher. We're exiting the
shoulder season, going into peak driving
season, and this is when it becomes a
bigger political issue, potentially
bigger economic data issue, and then
potentially an even bigger earnings
issue.
>> Will certainly be an inflation issue
later this week. CPI dropping on
Wednesday. Looking at the bond market
this morning, yields are higher off the
back of this move in energy. WTI at 95,
Brent crude, let's round it up to 97.
The chip stocks and [music] equity
futures are bouncing back. Coming up,
we'll catch up with Frankly of HSBC as
Nvidia's Jensen 1 suggests buying the
dip following a 10% decline on the semis
in Friday session alone. From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Equities this morning bounced by 0.3% on
the S&P 500 after snapping a 9-w weekek
[music] winning streak. We had not seen
a weekly loss since the month of March
and since then we've rallied about 20%
off the lows going into Friday's big
declines. Looking at the NASDAQ this
morning by 0.6% big bounce [music] for
that particular index. The worst day for
that particular index since the
liberation week mess of last April. For
the semis the worst day. the worst day
going back to 2020. [music] The semis
down by something like 10%. This
morning, here's your bats across several
single names, Nvidia included. [music]
Nvidia this morning, up by 1.7%.
Broadcom up by 1.5. In the bond market,
the bond market biting as [music] well.
Yields higher across the curve once
again this morning, up by two on twos to
417, up by three on 10s to 456. [music]
Jobs came in hot, much hotter than
expected going into CPI later this week.
Inflation dropping on Wednesday [music]
and the rate hike bets are building and
this move's encouraging here. Crude was
actually down for a couple of sessions
last week. [music] Energy wasn't a big
factor in the back up in yields. It was
all about the data. This morning though,
it contributes to the move up by 4% on
[music] Brent, 97, WTI 9450.
>> And you certainly don't want to see oil
prices going up as we head into peak
[music] driving season as Cameron was
talking about. It's interesting because
the AAA national average is $4.16.
[music]
It's actually been coming down closer to
four where a lot of people thought by
this time we bet we'd be at $5 a gallon
across [music] continental United
States. The inflation data this week is
going to be so telling and so important
because already as you mentioned going
into it we have the market already
pricing in a hike this year.
>> Kevin Walsh box office next [music]
Wednesday. You've got to put out some
forecasts change the guidance on day one
your first meeting at the Federal
Reserve. On our radar this morning,
Israel striking back after Thran's
missile attack over the weekend. It's
their first direct exchange of fire
since April. The IDF sank it hit targets
across the country. Iran reporting
explosions in the capital. Elsewhere,
Marval shares are rallying with the
chipmaker set to join the S&P 500. The
company blowing past estimates in the
latest earnings report. Marll starts
trading on the index later this month.
And finally, the president heading to
Madison Square Garden for the NBA
finals. The president telling Anmarie
he's unfaced by sky-high ticket prices.
>> The cheapest price for the game three
you're going to is $8,000.
Everyday Americans can't afford these
sporting events.
>> Well, I know, but they can watch it on
television. It's sort of semire to watch
it on television, but that's the way
life goes.
>> The president says that's the way life
goes heading into this mess. The NYPD
cancelling watch parties outside the
arena as a safety precaution and also
telling guests to get there 2 hours
early before the game.
>> 2 hours early, don't bring a bag. I
think the watch parties is really going
to annoy Nick fans. They've been having
parties all weekend in preparation for
Monday game three. They are so excited.
One thing that might be helping the
president is to get in. Now, I see a
five handle on StubHub. So, it's not the
eight that I saw on
>> 5,000 just to be clear for people. Yes.
5,000. Here is the issue. I understand
the president's point. The Knicks are
kind of idiosyncratic. They haven't been
in the finals since the '90s. It's the
one New York basketball team kind of. I
mean, the Nets, come on. But it's not
just the Knicks. If you look at the
average price for World Cup tickets,
they're $1,000. The median take-home for
an American worker a a week is $1,000.
Who is affording a family to go out at
these sporting events? And I don't think
that's the message you want in the
midterm elections. That's the way life
goes. Tough tarts. I'm not sure that's
going to land.
>> The optics aren't great. And I think we
understand the context for a lot of this
conversation. You look at where energy
prices are right now. People are getting
squeezed. Cam, you look at where
consumer confidence is right now. Rock
bottom. This has been accumulating for a
long, long time. How squeezed is this
consumer in America?
>> Yeah, we talk about take bottoms when it
comes to oil prices. I think we should
be talking about tank bottoms for the
consumer as well because you're now in a
point where you have real incomes
turning negative because wage growth has
be been subdued. It's running at about
3.8% on a nominal basis. But with
inflation moving higher, you're
effectively at this point where
consumers are continuing to lose
purchasing power. Now, they've been
dipping into savings, but that's only
made possible by the really strong bull
market. You typically see lower savings
rate as household net worth goes higher.
So if you continue to see volatility
within equity markets, you effectively
have a consumer both the top and the
bottom part of the K that could hit a
wall.
>> Tim is not great. We got rate cuts going
into the last election. We might get a
conversation about rate hikes going into
the midterms later this year.
>> And how political is the president going
to feel if his own pick Kevin Worsh
actually hikes rates at that October
meeting? You know what I was thinking,
John, as you were talking about how
challenging it's going to be for Kevin
Walsh more than ever now. I think he
decides to not put a dot anywhere on the
plot when it comes to his first meeting
cuz it's just too challenging.
>> Let's see if that's the case. That could
make headlines. The latest from the
president, the comments just dropping.
This coming from President Trump just
moments ago. Both sides, Israel and Iran
are looking to do an immediate
ceasefire. Final negotiations on peace
are proceeding subject to ignorance or
stupidity getting in the way. The
blockade will remain in place and in
full force and effect until a final deal
is reached. The president saying things
should move quickly as those headlines
drop and we've got no idea what's behind
them and what isn't this morning but
futures on the S&P 500 just taking
another leg higher on the S&P up by 0.4%
and commodities just coming off session
highs Brent and WTI WTI down to 94 Brent
approaching 96.
>> The president is trying to inject some
optimism this morning. A lot of people
are saying because we've seen Iran with
these ballistic missiles at Israel.
We've saw them talk a lot about rhetoric
on how Hezbollah Lebanon needs to be
included in the ceasefire but never
actually take that action. Seems like
the president with the these comments is
trying to hold on to that ceasefire and
tell everyone no he is committed to
having this end as he was talking about
at at this event I was with him on
Friday. He said it's either going to end
with a piece of paper or a much harder
decision to make which would basically
be more kinetic warfare. He seems to be
committed right now to ending it at the
diplomatic table with a piece of paper.
>> Cam, you're in the market. How
frustrating is this? You see a headline
like that. Do you believe that's
actually happening or is that just a
communication tool for financial
markets?
>> I mean, we we've always been saying it's
impossible to trade a taco and it just
seems like we have this constant put
buying under put under the market
whether it's coming from buying
individual companies or effectively
backing off from the most uh rhetoric
when it comes to the war. So, it's
really hard to fight and it's really
hard to predict which just suggests
keeping that long-term perspective as
unsatisfying as that answer is.
>> Well, futures bounced this morning up by
0.4% on the S&P. Tech stocks looking for
a bounce also following their worst day
for chip stocks since 2020. The Nvidia
boss Jensen Wong calling the selloff a
buying opportunity
>> with respect to the stock price.
Everybody should be very excited. they
can now buy stock at a cheaper price and
and uh and it's absolutely true that um
the future of AI is very bright.
>> Frankly of HSBC still maintaining a
bullish start with buy ratings on Nvidia
Broadcom and Intel. He joins us now for
more. Frank, welcome to the program. Are
you excited following Friday's losses?
Yeah, I mean I think it it was actually
like Jensen highlighted an opportunity
for a lot of people that missed this
rally because we've seen a very strong
rally since March. Uh and I I think at
the end of the day, you know, for people
who've been regretting it, this is an
opportunity. But, you know, just to bear
in mind, I think, you know, every few
months or so, uh you always see this
skittishness around AI. Uh we've seen
the last two or three years. Um and I
think this is another example of that.
uh you in terms of that skittishness in
terms of you know market has run ahead
of itself and and I think uh you know
there's nothing structurally or
fundamentally that we see any problems
if anything I would say you know the
proof of concept of AI uh you know as in
terms of uh being used is even stronger
than ever
>> well Frank let's get into some of that
so I wonder how much of it is about
technicals clearly very very stretched
and a lot of people pointing to that but
let's talk about some of the
fundamentals right now broadcom clearly
fell short of expectations I think that
tells you something about how the story
is priced and you You can give me your
opinion on that in just a moment. But
then for the whole complex at the
moment, what we've witnessed for many at
least is a monster wealth transfer from
very rich hyperscalers to chip players.
And what we've seen more recently,
particularly on Friday, the likes of
Meta in the Financial Times reportedly
considering an equity capital raise and
the market pushing back. Frank, to me at
least, that's the market early signs
pushing back against all this spending
that the chip stocks have benefited
from. Frank, can we get into those
fundamentals?
>> Yeah, sure. I I think to your earlier
point about, you know, Broadcom and and
the big sell-off, um I think at the end
of the day, the market has gotten so
used to just beaten rays, not just for
the quarter, but in terms of a bigger a
bigger and bigger TAM in terms of the
backlog. So I think one of the reasons
the market was disappointed is that they
had expected the you know pockan to you
know raise his backlog order even more
significantly for for next year which he
didn't uh you know which I don't think
he really did on this call. Um that's
not to say that there's not upside going
forward but he just didn't continue to
raise that bar and I think the market
had gotten so used to you know raising
the bar uh on the TAM and that's been
what's driving the stock price more than
natural earnings is just the TAM
opportunity. Um and I I think you know
that's something that uh we still
believe that the fundamental direction
is there. Uh and we still think that
earnings will still have to go up. Uh
it's just that there's going to be a
pause before these managements continue
to to raise that tam again. And I think
that's what we're seeing right now.
>> Frank, me and my colle colleague
Jennifer Dooie were talking to the
president on Friday about this idea of
the US taking equity stakes in these AI
companies and the president said there
are concepts where pieces could be given
to the American public. What do you make
of this?
Yeah, I mean it's certainly very unusual
because that means that you know you
have government interest in this. Um if
you look at you know what so far one of
their early examples is the direct stake
they have in Intel. uh looks to be a
brilliant move in retrospect given how
much the stock has gone up but it does
feed on momentum right um since that the
investment um by the US government in
Intel you continue to see a lot more
positive news uh on Intel's businesses
and clients more willing to engage of
course they've run into this fortuitous
opportunity whereas you know agentic AI
and CPU demand has created shortages um
but it does I think give the market some
confidence that you know they will
they'll continue to see you know
long-term strength and opportunities uh
because of government backing.
>> Frank, so much of the upside in the
earnings for semiconductors this year
has been driven by the margin expansion,
specifically gross margin expansion at
the memory players. You have Micron now
at an 80% gross margin that's
historically high but also historically
mean reverting. How cyclical are these
margins now?
Yeah. So this is probably one of the
biggest debates um especially among tech
analysts is you know is the memory
sector moving away from that cyclicality
and becoming more of a structural story.
Uh if you look at memory in the last
couple of decades every time the memory
prices hit a certain point uh demand
basically self-corrects because
elasticity. Uh but that's because
historically a lot of the memory's been
used in consumer products your
smartphones and PCs. this cycle is
somewhat different because, you know,
even though we've seen significant
increases in memory, it's not a
consumer-driven cycle. It's been
basically driven by infrastructure
capex. Uh, and so that seems to have a
much higher tolerance than on a consumer
side.
>> Frank Lee of HSBC, Frank, appreciate the
time and that was late into your evening
over in Asia. Thank you, sir. Appreciate
it. Cam, you asked the question, I
think. Yeah.
>> How cyclical are some of these stories?
Yeah, I think that they do remain very
cyclical names, but we happen to be in
the mother of all super cycles, which is
allowing them to remain at very high
profitability for longer. I think I was
looking at the Russell 1000 value. Guess
what the largest weight in it now is?
Micron. So, we've now all become very
exposed to all just one trade and there
really is nowhere to hide from it.
>> I mentioned the push back to the likes
of Meta, the big spenders that the chip
stocks have benefited from. Do you think
that's the start of something bigger?
>> Well, what we've seen is this huge
divergence between the earnings growth
and the free cash flow generation. If
you look at names like a a Meta over the
last two years, you've seen earnings
growth between 50 70% but free cash flow
generation down 80%, 90%, the likes of
Amazon 100%. This is why they're having
to tap deck markets. This is why they're
having to tap equity markets. And the
question is, is that sustainable? Will
investors continue to look and say
that's a good use of your capital? Maybe
one place to watch is we see with SpaceX
that they're leasing out their data
centers to Anthropic and they're leasing
them in a way that they could get an
18-month payback. But the question is,
are these companies now just turning
into mega huge data center kind of REITs
and what valuation should we put on
those names?
>> NASA futures this morning bounced back
by 3/4 of 1%. And let's keep you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Vonyi Quinn
has more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Chinese President
Xiinping is heading to North Korea
[music] today. It's his first trip there
in 7 years. Analysts say he wants to
reassert Beijing's influence [music]
over Kim Jong-un as the North Korean
leader rapidly expands his nuclear
arsenal and deepens his alliance with
Russia.
Shares of Montipaski [music]
are surging after Intessa offered to buy
the bank for $35 billion. [music] A
takeover would create one of Europe's
most valuable banks and boost Intesa as
a leader in the Italian market. Inta's
offer comes a day after Banko BPM
pitched a merger of equals with
Montipaski. [music]
United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby says US
demand and capacity still strong. He
spoke to Lisa at [music] the IATA
conference in Rio de Janeiro.
>> Time will tell. Depends on what's
happening with the economy, what happens
with oil prices. Um, but I feel pretty
good about where we are right now. We
feel pretty good about where the demand
environment is and you know the
consumer's been resilient even with
fairs you know up.
>> Kirby also said affluent travelers
continue to spend on air travel despite
a sharp increase in [music] fairs.
Coming up at 7:30 Eastern, Visa will be
speaking to the COO of Southwest
Airlines. [music] And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Who came up with that one?
Airline conference. Where should we go?
Rio. Let's make that happen.
>> Pretty nice gets to go to Rio.
>> And so does Guy Johnson. I heard I saw
him earlier. wake up very early to do um
to do a bit into his programming in
Europe. Yeah, it's pretty good. It's a
good gig. [music]
>> It's a good gig. Bremo's sending me
tourist shots over the weekend. Good for
Bremo. Not jealous at all. Up next on
the program, call in for rate cuts.
>> There's no reason to raise interest
rates. I would like to see rates get
lower because we could build this into
the greatest machine that the world has
ever seen.
>> The [music] president calling for cuts,
the market pricing in hikes. Colin
Martin of Schwab joins us next.
[music]
Stocks this morning bouncing back by a
third of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ up
by 0.7 on the Russell up by 0.8 eight
[music] in the bond market. Twos, 10,
30s. Yields pushing higher again
following Friday's sell-off. Yields off
the session highs because we're seeing
this move unwind just a bit on crude on
WTI and Bren [music] had a bounce this
morning. Taking some of that bounce
back. We're up by 3.6% now on Bren. Up
by more than four moments ago after
these comments from the president out on
social media the following post. [music]
Both sides Israel and Iran are looking
to do an immediate ceasefire. Now, we
haven't heard from either Israel or Iran
on that particular [music] issue, but
we're hearing it from the president.
>> Haven't heard from either of these
individuals in terms of if they will
stop what [music] the president called
quote unquote shooting. We did see
ballistic missiles from Iran go over to
Israel, something we have not seen.
They've talked about how this is in
response what Israel did when it comes
to Leb [music] Lebanon and Hezbollah.
The president is what I feel hanging on,
desperately hanging on to the idea
[music] of this ceasefire and wants this
to end at the negotiating table in a
piece of paper.
>> Energy up, yields up, a market price in
rate hikes. [music] Under Savanis this
morning, the president calling for rate
cuts.
>> Nowadays, when you have good reports,
the market goes down because they think
they're going to raise interest rates.
There's no reason to raise interest
rates. I would like to see rates get
lower because we could build this into
the greatest machine that the world has
ever seen. But you can't do that when
everybody immediately raises interest
rates.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
president pushing back on rate hike bets
with traders pricing in a quarter point
hike by the end of the year. Colin
Martin of Schwab writing inflation
remains sticky. Our base case is that
the Fed remains on an extended pause.
Colin joins us now for more. Colin, good
morning.
>> Morning. How high is that bar for rate
hikes of this Federal Reserve?
>> It's getting lower. Um, you know, we've
been saying it's a pretty high bar for
the past handful of months now. Uh, with
last Friday's labor market report, the
bar keeps coming down, but we're
acknowledging that things are moving
very fast. There's a lot of uncertainty
right now. If we look at it strictly in
a vacuum, the case can be made for a
hike right now. We have inflation that's
been high for 5 years and counting and
moving in the wrong direction. And a
labor market that at least for the time
being has shifted maybe from stabilizing
to strengthening. That's that's the good
news. But the outlook is very uncertain.
I mean, you were just talking about the
potential deescalation in the Middle
East. That's a major wild card. We have
Worsh coming in. How, you know, open to
rate hikes will he be? So, rather than
bouncing around too much, we're focusing
on an extended pause right now. We're
acknowledging that the the probability
or likelihood of a hike has risen, but
we want to see how the next few months
play out.
>> Well, before you get a hike, you need a
hawkish bias, and we don't have one of
those. We have an easing bias. And next
Wednesday at his first meeting, we're
expecting him to slip into neutral. not
a hawkish bias, but neutral. Some people
might be pushing back against that. Do
you think there will be some on the
committee next Wednesday that will push
for a so-called hawkish bias?
>> Maybe, but there there's been a lot of
uh comments we've heard from officials
over the past few weeks. And Beth
Hammock last week, I think, had had some
neutral comments where she said, "Right
now things are okay, but maybe we'll
have to, you know, shift." You know, I'm
I'm probably butchering her actual
quote, but the idea that the direction
is moving to heights, but we don't need
to do anything right now. She's been one
of the more vocal hawks. She was the one
who dissented the last meeting. So I
think that's that's a nice reasonable
approach. But if we continue to see the
conflict go on, which is inflationary
and if we see this labor market strength
continue, I think that shift to neutral
could become a shift to hawkish. But I I
wouldn't expect that next week.
>> Well, do you think anyone next week is
going to say we should have a hike at
that meeting?
>> I don't think so. Uh but but I think I
think there will be some that are
clearly moving in that direction. But
given the idea that if we shift the
easing bias knowing that that was what a
bunch of the dissenters were focusing on
last time and they at at least shift to
neutral acknowledge that there's
two-sided risks including those hawkish
risks. I don't know if we'll necessarily
see a descent.
>> I'm not trying to be cute. Does Kevin W
decide not to put a dot on the plot?
>> He might. I mean he's been pretty clear
about his views about the dot plot. I
mean, even Powell himself, I was about
to say Fed Chair Powell, former Fed
Chair Powell, Governor Powell, been so
ingrained in what I've seen a few people
make that mistake in notes by accident.
>> So, Governor Powell, you know, at his at
his last press conference acknowledged
that this is a discussion that committee
members have had. So, I think there are
some, including Worsh, that maybe aren't
too happy with how that goes. They
acknowledge the uncertainty and he said
they just haven't come with come up with
with a better, you know, resolution. So,
it's possible he doesn't throw that out
there because he knows or he's been
pretty clear about the downsides to that
dot plot.
>> We now have a two-year yield that's 40
basis points above the Fed funds rate.
We always think of George Sor saying the
bond market never lies. What would have
to happen with the economic data to make
that 2-year yield not lie?
>> Sure. Not lie. Uh well, let's see. We
we'd need, I think, a deescalation in
the Middle East. I think we'd need to
see a uh you know the hit to oil prices
start to show up in the data. Um right
now it's not happening. We talk about
the savings rate coming down. We talk
about cons and the potential hit to
higher gas prices. We're not seeing it
right now. I think for a hike to happen
we need to see inflation to continue the
recent trend. We used to if you asked me
two months ago I'd say reacelerate.
Right now probably just continue the
trend and the labor markets continue to
strengthen. We're getting a little bit
closer to that right now, but I don't
think we're at a a full-fledged hiking
cycle. I think we're we're looking at
one or two and we see where that 2-year
Treasury yield is right now. I think it
is getting a little ahead of itself, but
I do think a lot of it plays out with
the Middle East. It sounds like it's a
copout, but I think that does matter in
terms of how high do oil prices stay and
for how long and is there a hit to
consumer spending. So far, not so much
because AI and capex have such a been a
key driver, but I think we're going to
have to see how that plays out,
especially into the summer season.
>> Let's just build on Cam's line of
questioning. So, we're talking about the
difference between the policy rate and
twos. Twos have come up, that's
steepened. The interesting piece of
this, you look further out, twos out to
tens, that piece of the curve,
flattening. Yeah. What do you think that
speaks to?
>> I actually am a little bit confused
about that because I I I don't we don't
expect a full hiking cycle coming up
anytime soon. So, I think short-term
yields have probably gotten a little bit
ahead of theelves. We do see more upside
risks with long-term yields. So, I
wouldn't I wouldn't be surprised for a
steeper curve right now given inflation,
given uncertainty. The term premium is
something that we're looking at a lot
right now. Inflation's not just high,
it's uncertain. With Warian as the as
the Fed chair, use of the balance sheet
is probably behind us. So, I'm actually
surprised that the the 10year has
actually been somewhat well behaved and
I would expect a steeper yield.
>> So, you don't want 10ens here. We don't
like them at 455.
>> Not yet. We're not saying now is the
time to be adding duration.
>> Colin, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Colin Martin there. A Schwab, can
you get the final word? Where are you on
the bond market further out along the
curve?
>> We've just been thinking that the tenure
would be stuck in a range where if you
got to the high end of the range, you
should be a buyer of duration as a hedge
against weaker growth. And if you got to
the low end of the range, you should
either sell or sit on your hands.
>> What'd you do this morning?
>> Well, we we were nibbling at duration as
yields backed up higher back a couple of
weeks ago. And so certainly if you do
continue to see yields press higher, we
think it is a good hedge against weaker
growth. Most as we go into the summer
where the last two summers we've had
weaker growth, weaker economic surprises
and big bond rallies
>> and then cut rates three times into year
end. As simple as that. 455 this
morning. Yields up by two basis points.
Came with good to see you. Thanks for
this morning. Thank you. Cameron Dawson
there of New Edge Wealth. Coming up
next, we'll catch up with Chris Harvey
of CIBC, the former [music] US Defense
Secretary Mark Esper, Southwest Airlines
COO Andrew Wat with Brammo in Brazil of
all [music] places, plus Eric Ajaran of
UPS. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
The labor market is continuing to to
humong quite well. Job growth in what
fuels our economy is always a good
thing.
>> The rates market sort of sniffing out is
monetary policy actually accommodative.
>> I think ultimately the next move will be
a cut or or two. We're right on the
precipice [music] of pricing in a full
hike.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Blue Survey starts right now. and your
scores. The price action looks like
this. Equity futures [music] bouncing
back from the biggest 1-day loss of the
year so far. The S&P up a third of 1% on
the NASDAQ up by 0.7. The [music] first
weekly loss on the S&P 500 since the
month of March. What a run. In the bond
market, yields higher across the curve.
Twos up by a single basis point. 10's up
by two to 455 [music] and 416
respectively. Driven this morning by
bouncing energy on brim [music] on WTI.
crude looks like this this morning up by
3% 96 on Brent, 93 on WTI, call it 94
heading into inflation data a little bit
later [music] this week
>> because we've seen fresh attacks from
Israel and Iran at each other and the
Houthis as well coming in and saying
they are going to get [music] involved
at least when it comes to maritime
shipping when it comes to Israeli
vessels. The president clearly is trying
his best to hang on to the ceasefire, at
least rhetorically in Truth Social this
morning, saying both sides are looking
to do an immediate ceasefire. [music]
He keeps talking about final
negotiations, but and you brought this
up a million times. How many times have
we been here with this president that we
are almost at the precipice of a deal
and then [music] weeks and months go by.
We are more than 100 days into this
conflict.
>> On the face of things, it looks like the
president attempting to manage the
optics because the optics this morning
aren't great for the president. Over the
weekend, Iran striking [music] Israel.
The president saying, "Don't strike
back." And Israel doing just that.
>> The president, according to the FT, said
that BB [music] won't have any choice. I
call the shots. That's what the
president told the Financial Times when
it comes to Israel. I call the shots.
Quote, he doesn't call [music] the
shots. Speaking of Netanyahu, well then
Israel decided to fire back and it looks
like [music] potentially this
administration doesn't have control or
doesn't have the same [music] sort of
push they can have with Israel the way
maybe they did in the past.
>> In the world of tech, it's Jensen
attempting to call the shots. Check out
equity futures this morning. Across the
board, we've got a bounce on the S&P on
the NASDAQ. I said the S&P worst day of
the year so far for the S&P 500. For the
NASDAQ, you've got to go back to April
[music] of last year and all the stress
and tension, all the jitters around the
trade story of April 2025. For the
semis, the worst single days price
action going back to 2020, [music] a 10%
decline. The Nvidia boss saying this
this morning, you should be very happy
because now you can buy at a discount.
>> Yep. Everyone should be very excited.
According to Jensen Wong, uh this is
what he told reporters. He's actually in
Soul. He just did a deal [music] with um
the SK Group. So, he's saying if you
have missed out on this massive AI
bullish trade, now is your chance to get
in. [music] You should be happy.
Basically, he's saying, Jonathan, buy
the dip.
>> Well, here's the bounce. Forget the dip.
Up a third of 1% on the S&P. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Chris
Harvey of CIBC with stocks looking to
rebound from [music] the latest AIdriven
sell-off. We'll speak to the former US
defense secretary Mark Esper on fresh
strikes between Israel and Iran and the
Southwest COO Andrew Waters as surging
fuel prices wag the airlines. We begin
this hour with stocks bouncing back
following a 9-week winning streak
disturbed just yesterday, just Friday
rather by the biggest one-day loss that
we've seen for the year so far. Chris
Harvey of CIBC recently raising his
year-end price target on the S&P to 8020
writes the following. There is still
plenty of runway for the market, but
that does not preclude aggressive
near-term pullbacks. Chris joins us now
for more. Chris, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Good morning.
>> 8020. Where did these price targets come
from? 707 8020. [laughter]
>> We get a little bit ability to round,
right? We were around 8,000 8020 8020
rule. I can remember that. But at the
end of the day, we were looking for 17%
EPS growth about a 22 multiple. And
that's how we get there.
>> Fundamentals supportive. You mentioned
the earnings. The earnings have been
fantastic, but anyone who's looked at
the technicals have come on the program
and you would share this view. I'm sure
technicals have been really stretched.
Is that's what's squeezing us at the
moment?
>> Listen, we had a great run, right?
Friday or or last week, we had real
rates going higher. We had more
hawkishness. We have a price we have a
price hike um in the marketplace. You
roll into the you're rolling into the
weekend. We don't have anything solved
in the Middle East. You're right. We
keep hearing all these promises, but we
don't have resolution. and people were
worried that something bad could happen
and you have a little bit of a meltdown
on Friday.
>> I'm going to borrow your phrase,
sleeping on the macro. It was a phrase
you used at the start of the year saying
this market was too buoyant. Bad things
can happen and they did for a moment and
you were right and then you brought in a
much more aggressive constructive view
on the stock market near the lows. Now
you look at the stock market now. Can we
use your phrase again? Sleeping on the
macro. Are we sleeping on the macro?
>> No, I I don't think we're sleeping on
the macro. I think everyone has their
eyes wide open about what can happen,
right? What we're doing is we're we're
trying to price in two really
diametrically opposed views. One is can
oil go to 125, 150, right? Can would the
Fed start hiking rates or are we in the
process of a meltdown where we get
resolution in Iran? We can talk about
not so much easing but pricing out that
that hike. And we have M&A, we have IPO,
story, IPOs, we have incredibly strong
fundamentals and valuation, while not
cheap, are not excessive like they were
in the 90s.
>> You say in your note there's more room
to run, but it's not free of risk. What
what for you are the biggest risks right
now?
>> The the biggest risks really are rates
and what happens in the Middle East,
right? If we if things get out of
control and we're starting to look at
125 to 150 on oil, that's not good,
right? And you were talking about it
before. we feel like the the
administration feels like they have
control but then you see certain things
where you're like not entirely sure. So
that's probably the biggest issue and
with rates going higher that could be a
big problem.
>> Well in the Middle East what if we just
stay in this paralysis till the end of
the year. So we stay in this paralysis
but you start getting ships through the
straight of hormones and we have all
other alternatives that's okay but if we
can't get u ships through the straight
of hormuz and we start to see that that
step up that's the real problem.
>> There were two words that slipped out
last week and I haven't heard much
followup on it since the president said
Labor Day Labor Day September and I just
wonder where that came from. Why was the
president talking about Labor Day as
being the potential spot for these
issues to be settled? because
potentially they're thinking about and
strategizing within the White House.
Now, I'm just inferring here, that it is
going to take the entire summer to reach
a negotiation and a deal with Iran,
which would make sense if you know
anything about the Iranian regime,
whether or not it has been decimated and
we're dealing with new individuals now.
It is still the same regime, even though
it's changed. Took 20 months to get the
JCPOA done. 20 months. So, we're talking
about potentially a longer road ahead
when it comes to this White House and
Tyrron.
>> Chris, where does it leave this Federal
Reserve next week?
>> Um, leaves him in a tough spot. I I
don't think you're going to hear
anything too unusual from from Wars. I
don't think he can really go out there
and make some strong statements. I think
what he's going to do is he's just going
to lay the groundwork for the new Fed.
Here's what you should expect from
communication. Here are the things that
we're watching. Here are the things
we're concerned about. And here are the
things that we're not concerned about.
and just really give you a template for
the next couple years.
>> They're looking to tighten things up
maybe just in terms of their
communication, not the actual policy and
that could happen next Wednesday. Before
we get there, we've got a major IPO
taking place this week.
>> We do.
>> We're pricing SpaceX should start
trading on Friday. And a market starting
to push back, push back against the
offering from Alphabet,
>> push back against just the report that
Meta might be considering doing
something similar and raising equity
capital. I asked Cameron Dawson this
question in the last hour. I'd love your
reaction to it. If corporate America,
the very best seauite on the planet are
telling you now is a good time to sell
equity, why is it a good time for
investors to buy it?
>> So it depends on your definition of
equity, right? So you have a very broad
equity market. There are good there are
always good valuations in the equity
market. Does that mean that you should
be buying the froth and speculation? No.
That that's not our thing. Are there
lots of good risk awards out there?
Yeah. And you can find those in
industrials. You can find them in
consumer. You can find them in
technology. A and if you're looking
longer term, there's still plenty of
opportunities, but I just this is not
the time to light your hair on fire.
>> Do you think this market can stomach the
degree of supply that we could see on
the equity side, not the debt side?
We've seen lots of that, but on the
equity side in the year to come.
>> So, John, I always go back to 1998. 1998
you had global crossing level three come
public, right? We also had we had a
pretty big pullback, but that was
related to long-term capital. And then
we had 99 where things continued to run
until early 2000. So, can you handle it?
Yeah, you you certainly can. What I
would also say is that in 99 2000, you
actually had a tightening cycle and
stocks still went higher. The NASDAQ
during that that tightening cycle was up
60%. So, there is precedent for that.
>> But you don't think we're there yet.
>> No, we're not we're not there yet. You
have you have to have a couple things
fall. Um, we do need to have some better
comfort level on what's happening in the
Middle East and and that we can move
forward with that. Um, and right now
what we're seeing is, hey, we're seeing
a ton of really attractive M&A activity.
We are seeing the IPOs. We'll see how
they play out. The underlying
fundamentals still strong. And consumer
sentiment, while everyone wants to talk
badly about the consumer, consumer is
still holding up. Okay.
>> Well, the consumer is talking badly
about the consumer sentiment rock bottom
at the moment and doesn't seem to be
improving anytime soon. They're still
spending, but they are definitely going
into polls and surveys talking about how
frustrated they are with higher prices
and and you see that consistently.
>> I think we're all frustrated with talks
in the Middle East right now. Chris
Harvey of CIBC is going to stick with us
through the hour. I'm happy to say.
Chris, looking forward to catching up on
more topics, including this one. the
president in the last hour suggesting
that both sides and both sides being
Israel and Iran are looking to do an
immediate ceasefire after seemingly
losing control of the situation over the
weekend where Iran struck Israel. Israel
was told not to strike back and did just
that.
>> They did just that which is why the
president now is putting out this truth
saying that they're going to do an
immediate ceasefire. The issue is we
need to hear from the Israeli government
and the Iranian regime that actually
they are signing up for the ceasefire
and they potentially means also that
they're continuing these talks with the
United States given the fact that we've
had some pretty big escalations the past
24 hours. I would like to know where
exactly we are right now in terms of the
negotiations between Washington and
Tyrron.
>> So crude bouncing this morning but off
session highs following those comments
from the president. We've still got WTI
around 93, round it up to 94 and Brent
crude around 96 this morning. Let's give
you an update on news elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over
to Vonnie Quinn for more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. The US Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention says
Africa's Ebola outbreak could become one
of the largest ever if control measures
fail to accelerate. The Democratic
Republic of Congo on Friday reported
cases jumping by 71 in a day with 21
deaths reported.
JetBlue's CEO says travelers continue to
pay for premium products as it prepares
to roll out domestic first class. Lisa
asked Joanna Gered about consolidation
plans at the IATA conference in Brazil.
Companies need to focus on their organic
plan and [music] when we think about all
the time we spent with Spirit trying to
get that transaction done. We have a
great plan. So you can obviously never
say never uh as a publicly traded
company. Um but we really need to be
focused on getting JetBlue [music]
healthy again. And coming up in about 20
minutes, 7:30 Eastern, Lisa will be
speaking to the COO of Southwest
Airlines.
Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference
kicking off today in Certino,
California. The focus will be on the
company's artificial intelligence
strategy. The event comes 2 years after
its first AI rollout was plagued by
subpar technology and delayed features.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it.
More from Vonyie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, the peace
deal stalling.
We have the ultimate blockade. U I don't
consider that a war. My red line would
be if I think I wasn't going to make a
deal or if I wasn't going to make a deal
fast enough.
>> Up next on the program, the former US
Defense Secretary [music] Mark Esper
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Let's just frame this stacked week
coming up Wednesday CPI data last read
on inflation [music]
going into the Federal Reserve's next
meeting and Kevin Walsh is first as Fed
chair. Look out for that. Look out for
this. Should be pricing that SpaceX IPO
later this week and trading on Friday
going into a market that got a bit
jittery. This cut last Friday. Equity
futures this morning looking to bounce.
We're up across the board near session
highs now up by 0.6% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ up by 1.2.
In the bond market, yields were pushing
higher now up by just a basis [music]
point. Not even at the front end of the
curve as crude comes way off session
highs. up by just 2% not even on WTI to
92 [music] B crude to 95 just a few
comments from the president an hour or
so ago sparking [music] this turnaround
>> yeah that was about 41 minutes ago I'm
looking at his truth social account now
the last we've heard from the president
he's saying that Israel and Iran are
looking to do an immediate ceasefire all
cap he says final negotiations on peace
[music] are proceeding subject to
ignorance or stupidity getting in its
way clearly [music]
this president is frustrated with what
we've seen in the past 24 hours and I
think that was really highlighted in
this phone call we had with the
Financial Times [music] saying that he's
the one that called the calls the shots.
And then what did we see? We actually
saw Israel [music] decide to call their
own shots and fire back at Iran.
>> Hard to claim he was calling the shots
over the weekend. Futures this morning
bouncing their session highs up by 0.6%
under Sylvanas this morning. The peace
deal stalling.
>> We have the ultimate blockade. Um I
don't consider that a war. My red line
would be if I think I wasn't going to
make a deal or if I wasn't going to make
a deal fast enough. So, we're having
very good negotiations with the people
that are leading the country now. We'll
either have something done fairly
quickly or we'll finish it out mil
militarily.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Israel disregarding warnings from
Washington retaliating against Iran
overnight. The president calling for the
nations to stop fighting quote
immediately telling the Financial Times
that he calls all the shots, not
Netanyahu. Talking to us now,
Bloomberg's Tana Kendall. She joins us
from Washington. Tyler, good morning to
you. The president suggesting we're
close to some kind of ceasefire between
Israel and Iran. What do the other sides
say about the matter?
>> Well, John, at this point, we haven't
gotten confirmation from Israel or Iran
that they are working towards what
President Trump called a quote immediate
ceasefire. As the White House makes very
clear that they are trying to maintain
that diplomacy is still a viable option
and route on the table. because if
anything, we've only seen escalation in
the last 24 hours between Israel and
Iran when it comes to Israel's front
against the Iranianbacked militant group
Hezbollah. Now, Iran has long maintained
that a ceasefire must extend to this
fighting that is in Lebanon. But this
point, uh, Israel has said that this is
going to be a separate front. Though we
should point out that Israel and Lebanon
did reach an agreement last week for an
extended truce, but it was Hezbollah
which rejected those terms and in part
spurred this latest round of escalation.
We're going to have to see where these
potential negotiations do develop.
Because again, we haven't really gotten
those indications that the White House's
calls to deescalate have been met. Amid
reporting from Axios that President
Trump directly asked Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to hold off
on retaliation and President Trump
saying publicly to NBC News that he
wants to see Israel's attacks against
Hezbollah be quote more surgical. One
thing though, John, that President Trump
has made clear is that until there is a
firmer deal in place, the US isn't going
to lift its own naval blockade. of
course leaving that threat of escalation
on the table and that has put commercial
shipping and the threats there front and
center. We should point out that earlier
today we saw from the Iranianbacked
milit group the Houthies in Yemen
threatened that they will ban any
Israeli ships in the Red Sea which will
just complicate all of these talks even
further.
>> Tyler, appreciate the update. Tyler
Kendall, as Tyler was speaking to us, we
got this headline just crossing the
Bloomberg terminal. The latest from
Iran. The IRGC is declaring an end of
military operations against Israel. So
this is just an example potentially what
the president was talking about 40
minutes ago in truth social saying we
are very close to a ceasefire from the
latest hostilities between Israel and
Iran. Here we have the IRGC saying they
are done in terms of their operation
against Israel. That is good news right
now.
>> That helps to bring down the temperature
in the energy market. Yields off session
highs as well. Equities taken another
leg higher. Equity futures this morning
by6%. The former defense secretary, Mark
Esper, writing the following. The
conflict is in a strategic stalemate
with no clear path forward for
negotiations. We're now over 100 days
into a conflict that was only supposed
to last 4 to 6 weeks. Mark joins us now
for more. Mr. Secretary, welcome to the
program. Let's talk about how much
control the president has over Israel at
the moment given the events of the
weekend.
Well, he does have some control over
Israel with regard to, you know, his
relationship through BB Netanyahu, but
keep in mind the political dynamics in
Israel and and the United States are
quite different. Both leaders have
elections coming up in the fall.
Netanyahu directly, the Knessets being
has an election, but he [snorts] is
fighting a war in which uh overwhelming
numbers 60 to 70% of the Israeli people
at least support the conflict certainly
against Hezbollah in Lebanon, but also
against Iran. and the president's
President Trump's numbers are flipped.
So there are diff different political
dynamics here at play. I also think
there are different endstates that are
desired. Obviously uh Israel wants
regime change and President Trump wants
to get a deal that uh it says no nuclear
weapons or a path to nuclear weapons for
uh for Iran. So in some ways they're on
just on different paths right now.
>> Can we just talk about the latest
hostilities of the past 48 hours? It
doesn't seem like the ceasefire is fully
broken. Do you think that these are just
countries that are testing each other
right now?
>> Well, first of all, I've been reluctant
to say for at least the last week or so
ceasefire. It seems to me it's more like
a cessation or a suspension of major
hostilities because, as you know, there
have been missiles flying back and forth
across the Persian Gulf um uh from the
United States attacking Iranian coastal
sites to the Iranians attacking Kuwait
and Bahrain and and other countries and
now the last 24 hours this big flare up
with Israel. So, uh, look, I I think
this is going to continue, uh, for for a
while. Uh, I what's interesting to me as
well is it seems like Iran is putting
new things on the table with regard to
negotiations because now they're talking
about wanting upfront uh, $12 billion in
unfrozen assets, maybe another 12 along
the way. Uh, there's the threat of
course of leveraging the Babel Mandeb.
And we know uh that they've said and as
your reporter said just prior that u
Iran is demanding uh complete sessation
of hostilities in Lebanon. And I'm not
sure that BB Netanyahu can can agree to
that.
>> Well, and also how can the president
agree to that for Israel given the fact
that according to the Financial Times,
the president said he called the shots
and then Israel actually took their own
step to have this response.
>> Sure. Sure. Look, the agreement between
over the last few days between Lebanon
and Israel, which is does not include
Hezbollah, was that uh Israel would not
attack into southern Beirut, into the
outskirts of Beirut, unless Hezbollah
attacked into uh Israeli territory. And
we know the last 24 hours uh Israel has
alleged that um that Hezbollah did
strike, did send rockets or missiles
into northern Israel. they were
intercepted, but that's what prompted
this latest round of exchanges between
uh uh with Israel going into Beirut and
then of course Iran responding. So this
is a big part of this is Iran trying to
defend its proxy Hezbollah. It's its
longest, oldest, best proxy uh from
elimination and and you have this
dynamic at play and they're not going to
give that up easily.
>> As the former defense secretary, the
president said in this meet the press
interview when talking about troops,
saying we have a lot of people there,
quote, "They're very safe." Do you think
our troops in the Middle East are safe
right now?
>> Well, there, you know, you're always at
some risk when you're in a combat zone.
Uh, but I I think in terms of the status
of the war, and I I I'm confident in the
ability of our commanders to take good
defensive measures, uh, I I think
they're in pretty good shape. But look,
war is risky. Things happen. Uh, we know
unfortunately we lost 13 service members
uh already. That's 13 too many. And
several hundred have been wounded. So,
we we can't forget about that as well.
So, look, it's not risk-free, but it's
it's we're not in a hot war that we were
two and a half months ago, per se.
>> So, do you think our troops right now
are just there to set a deterrence when
it comes to the Iranian regime?
>> Well, it's a combination of deterren
deterrence. It's uh you also are
supporting your diplomatic efforts so
that the Iranians know that we can back
up whatever we say with military force
or if things break down or if the
Iranians lash out again that we're there
to to back it up with military force. So
there are a number of reasons why we're
there. And of course, you know, for for
a long time, certainly during my my
period, we we've kept uh over 40,000
troops in the Middle East regardless of
what was happen happening. So now we
have a plus up there mostly with regard
to air force and and navy, and I suspect
they will stay there for a while until
this is resolved, which doesn't appear
to get resolved, won't appear to get
resolved anytime soon, frankly.
>> Mr. Secretary, when you are at the
Pentagon, you go through a lot of
scenario analysis without a doubt, and
I'm sure this was an event that you
spent time on in the past. How does this
play out in your mind? And what kind of
preparation have we made for this
enduring through the summer?
>> Well, you know, I I I went through this
scenario a few times, or at least this
drill with the president in the in the
situation room. I I talk about it a lot
in my memoir where you'd have folks who
wanted to go to Iran, wanted to strike
Iran, and I would least say two things.
You know, first of all, Mr. President, a
war is easy to get into but hard to get
out of. And secondly, if we want to do
this, it's going to take a lot of
preparation, weeks of preparation to get
all the troops in place, whether it's
Army air defenders, uh, air force
fighter squadrons or navy ships. And so,
it does take a a preparation time. And
of course, you always want to bring
along as many allies as you can to
support you. U, preferably some of the
European militaries, but certainly the
Gulf allies. Um, you know, obviously we
know that the president started this at
the end of February of this year, uh,
when talks broke down in Geneva, and
there wasn't a lot of that preparation
going on. So, obviously, they've they've
kind of shored some of that up in the
meantime, but you go through all at
least those steps of preparation uh,
when you're looking at a possible major
conflict with the with a country like
Iran.
>> It's certainly difficult getting out of
this time around. That's for sure. The
former defense secretary, Mark Esper,
Mr. Secretary, thank you, sir.
Appreciate it. If you're just joining
us, welcome to the program. Take a
snapshot of Brent crude in just today's
session alone around 4 a.m. Eastern time
trading with a 98 handle at 5% on the
session now back down to about 94 and up
by 1.6% as the latest reports coming out
of Iran suggest the operation [music]
against Israel at least for now is
complete. Up next on the program,
Southwest COO Andrew [music] Wat as
surging prices weigh on the airline
industry.
The bulls have had it so good. A 20%
move off the low on the S&P 500. Nine
weeks of gains. We give some of it up.
Some of it with the first weekly decline
since March and the biggest one day loss
of the year so far. The S&P [music] down
by 0.7% on the NASDAQ. We're up by 1.3
and up by.7% rather. Used to say down
after Friday's drastic price action and
the moves low we've seen in the bond
market. Check it out. Yields improving
and by improving I mean off session
highs just about unchanged now on twos
and on [music] 10s. 10-year bond yields
up by only a single basis point this
morning at 454. Crude helping out the
move. [music] Brent crude from 98 to 94
in just a single session. In fact, in
just three and a half hours, 9440 this
morning. We're up by 1.4% [music]
on the session so far following a few
comments from the president of the
United States and then really supported
by some [music] reports coming out of
Iraq. Yeah, a stunning move by oil.
Basically, the president is saying that
there would be this immediate ceasefire.
The president did say that he was the
one that was calling the shots according
[music] to the Financial Times and that
Israel wouldn't respond. Israel did
respond, but it does seem like the fed
the [music] president is influencing the
situation right now. First, his truth
social saying that that this would be
the end of hostilities, at least the
most recent hostilities we saw in the
past 24 48 hours, and then the IRGC
declaring that they are ending their
military operation [music] against
Israel. So right now it does seem like
we are just back to that feeling of
normal, that very fragile, brittle
ceasefire.
>> Futures session highs up by 7% on the
S&P. That's the price action on our
radar this morning. Israel retaliating
against Iran, ignoring warnings from DC.
The president tallying the Financial
Times that Israel will have to accept
any deal between Washington and Tehran
because he quote calls all the shots.
Elsewhere, AI concerns leading chip
stocks to their worst day in over six
years on Friday. The Nvidia CEO Jensen
Wag saying the sell-off creates a buying
opportunity
>> with respect to the stock price.
Everybody should be very excited. They
can now buy stock at a cheaper price and
and uh and it's absolutely true that um
the future of AI is very bright.
>> The Nvidia boss adding that the AI
buildout is still in the early stages.
And finally, the president suggesting
the government could take ownership
stakes in AI companies, finding common
ground with the US senator, Bernie
Sanders.
>> I've been talking about it for the last
year. When Bernie Sanders lost, you know
that I got many of his people. They
voted for me because we are on an
economic plan as far as economics is
concerned. We have certain things that
aren't that far apart.
>> And Marie catching up with the president
over the weekend.
>> So, he's looking at me saying, "Do you
know?" And I wanted to be like, "Yes, of
course I know." And the most famous one
obviously is Joe Rogan who was a Bernie
bro and then obviously a huge endorser
of the president. This is where the far
right and the far left are now
colliding. And the president also made
news with us reporters on Friday saying
that he's going to have the CEOs of the
AI companies come to the White House and
they've already had discussions of this.
He called it concepts. We're backed to
concepts of a plan, but basically it's
some sort of partnership with these
companies. Bernie Sanders has come out
and talked about 50% outright equity
stakes that the government needs to own
them. Interesting. David Saxs, who used
to work with the president, he does not
like the idea of this. He's saying, "Of
course, we want China and the rest of
the world to be addicted to our
technology, but we don't want a CCP
style of actually owning these
companies."
>> Which one is it? Is it taking stakes or
buying stakes? Is it OpenAI selling
something or giving it to the US
government?
>> It's unclear right now. And I think it
depends.
>> There's a massive difference between the
two.
>> I know. And I think it depends who in
Washington you ask what they would be
pushing for. I'm pretty sure Bernie
Sanders just wants them to give the
United States government these stakes.
And his argument is that these AI models
are trained off all of our collective
knowledge, whether it's news articles,
our culture, etc., etc., etc.
>> Chris Harvey still with us of CIPC.
Chris, is this about sharing the gains
or preparing to share the losses?
>> I don't think it's a good idea for the
government to get involved in in
business to a large degree. If you want
to share some of the gains, then then go
out and tax it. Do not get involved in
in the ownership of it. I I don't think
that's a great idea.
>> Why do you think OpenAI is even
considering it?
>> I I I don't know. You know, that's
that's a great question. I don't have a
great answer for you.
>> Well, that makes me think that to your
question, they want to make sure the US
government is backstopping them to share
if there isn't any losses or they're
trying to get ahead of what they see on
the horizon, which is going to be
serious regulation of these. favorable
way of looking at it. It's about sharing
the losses.
>> Maybe sharing losses, maybe it gives you
some credibility. Maybe they think it
gives you a leg up on others. Maybe it
gives you they think they gives it
access to certain contracts or other
things. Again, not not clear to me.
>> Intel has done very well though since
the 10% equity stake from the
government.
>> Uh it so potentially why wouldn't this
be a good idea? Uh
>> I don't I I think uh I believe in a
separation of church and state. I
believe is such a se separation of
politics and and business and we just
don't want to marry the two.
>> To your point, Chris, why not just hike
up corporate tax rates? Why not do
something on that front?
>> Yeah. If you if you're looking for
gains, then that's what you do. You're
that's your government. That's your
right to do. And if you think that
there's opportunity there and you think
that you can get this legislation
through, then that's that's the path
they should go down.
>> That's a risk factor also for the
broader equity market. Is that on your
horizon just yet, or is that further
down the road? t tax a tax raise. No,
that's not not on my horizon. Um, that
would be that would be a new risk. And
if we start to price that in, I I think
you would have to see the markets come
down to to to really uh appreciate a tax
hike in in some of the areas where
they're growing the most cuz that could
slow things down.
>> These conversations always start in
extreme places and I just wonder how
spicy the Democratic primaries are going
to be when this topic comes up in the
next 12 months. It's going to be
incredibly spicy because are you going
to be having to chase the most extreme
position on this right now which is
Senator Bernie Sanders which oddly which
is why I asked that question to the
president. Is it odd for you that what
you are saying right now to us reporters
sounds a lot like Senator Sanders and he
said no because we kind of line up on
economic issues. Is this president
basically claiming to be a socialist on
economic policy?
>> Feels like a stretch but I understand
the comparison at least this morning on
this issue. And this is what David Sax
had to say on Twitter. America won't win
the AI race if we beat China, but end up
with a CCP style social credit system in
the United States. And that is the
danger as the government becomes more
deeply involved in AI development and
assume direct ownership and control.
This is going to be one of the biggest
issues heading to the midterms and it
will be the biggest issue I think for
>> without a doubt at least as things
stand. Futures this morning up by 3/4 to
1% on the S&P. Equities doing better.
Let's talk about fuel costs and
inflation. surging fuel costs leading to
global airlines slashing profit outlooks
by nearly half.
>> With the significant impact to uh
disruption in the Gulf and the very
significant impact on oil prices, we're
now forecasting lower growth. Fuel bill
will be about hundred billion US higher.
According to the International Air
Transport Association, airlines are
expecting to bring in a combined $23
billion in net profit this year, down
from the previously projected 41
billion. IATA holding its annual
conference in Brazil of all places.
Brammo joins us now with a special
guest. Good morning, Lisa.
>> Bonia Jonathan Pharaoh. I am here still
in Rio enjoying the beaches as you've
said you can see here uh the incredible
beach of this conference center and I'm
here with the chief operating officer of
Southwest Andrew Wat thank you so much
for being with us this morning
>> my pleasure
>> so I want to start with a story that
Jonathan and Emory were just talking
about this idea of higher fuel costs
this morning we see another leg higher
we're hearing yes people are concerned
about oil prices but that they've been
managing through I mean how have you
managed to offset the increased cost
through raising prices cutting roots and
potentially uh raising costs on charging
for bags.
>> Yeah. So you you can uh you need to
cover the extra cost from higher fuel.
You can't do it in a matter of days. You
can organize yourself and do it in a
matter of months and quarters. And so we
have been taking actions to, you know,
conserve costs, improve fuel efficiency,
but also RA revenue through, you know,
additional, you know, bag fee increases
through fair increases and other uh uh
demand generation activities allow you
to move your revenues up to cover that
increased cost. you know hopefully by
the end of this year early next
>> has it impeded your quest to become
profitable and your actual ability to do
so so far this year
>> well we had the highest adjusted net
margin US industry in Q1 so uh we
restored profitability before fuel went
up which better than the other way
around uh we certainly anticipate that
uh transformation activity driving us
throughout the rest of the year from a
profit perspective so we're focused on
that and have more to go
>> have you been surprised by how little
demand destruction there's actually been
that customers keep flying even as you
raise prices
>> well the drivers of the demand Our
corporate profits really drive business
travel and corporate profits has held up
well and job growth we saw last week is
also strong and that drives leisure
travel. So the fundamentals of demand
generation are strong and that really
helps the customer overcome you know
increased prices.
>> How does business travel this year
compared to last year? Is it actually
more or is it less because of the higher
costs?
>> It's incredibly strong right now. Last
year in a tariff there's a lot of
uncertainty. Businesses hate uncertainty
and so they pulled back on travel and
the uncertain times. Now it's higher
cost from fuel. they understand that
they can act on that and as we said in
Bernstein conference last week we're
seeing uh you know 25% uh growth in
corporate travel the from March on
>> there has been some speculation that
businesses would pull back on first
class travel on business class travel
because the costs are going up to such a
degree have you seen any signs of that
>> no we've not seen any change in business
travel if anything it's an acceleration
in March versus February so businesses
are out traveling themselves trying to
generate the revenue they need uh for
the higher cost environment
>> going forward do you expect to be able
to raise prices further without seeing
demand destruction.
>> Well, you certainly have to organize
yourself to high have the higher
revenue. Uh there's many levers you can
do. In general, the higher your cost,
the lower your growth rate. So, you have
to look at your growth of supply versus
demand growth. And so, as long as demand
keeps growing and you can modify supply,
uh even it's not a direct fair increase,
you can get the revenue traction you
need.
>> Southwest was known as the place you
could go for the cheapest fairs. You
would wait in lines in different groups
and then everybody would get on the
plane. There wouldn't be seat
assignments. there's been a
transformation in the identity of
Southwest since you took over really as
chief operating officer and uh in 2024
with some of the uh activist
shareholders. Have you seen a change in
your customer base in a dramatic way?
>> Uh not really. What we've seen is our
customers and given us more their share
of wallet. So we went from a
one-sizefits-all to a pay more to get
more model. So we still have a base fair
product that if you're just very cost
sensitive, that's for you. But we found
that our customers really were eager to
pay us more to have the exact seat they
want, the exact product they want. So
it's worked out fabulously well.
>> Going forward, do you expect that you
are going to see increases in demand
also from the economy sort of your rank
and file versus just those who can
afford some of the perks?
>> You know, we see a broad base. We talk
about a cake shaped economy. There's
actually a very broad middle of people
who have the ability to travel and
they're traveling. And so when you give
them a multiple price points and they
can choose to what fits them, you see
you can really harvest demand.
Economists might call it marching down
the demand curve. Going forward, do you
expect that you're going to have to
raise prices further?
>> Uh I I think we're going to have to have
a mix of revenue enhancing
opportunities, whether that's on the
price side, capacity changes, uh or or
other fee changes. And so the the big
changes in prices, I think, uh happened,
uh in in March, and now it's more
incremental type changes you have to do
to kind of capture.
>> How much more can you charge for? I
mean, yes, drinks, sure, baggage fees,
going to the bathroom. I mean, honestly,
at what point can you sort of run out of
things to to monetize? Well, yeah. As
demand growth happens, that puts natural
upward pressure on revenue. So, you can
see uh as customers get raises, employ
as uh businesses get higher profits,
they can afford a little bit more, they
end up paying and budgeting a little bit
more. So, now we're in kind of the
gradual grain of of price increases
versus kind of the big one we had to
begin with.
>> You know, we were talking to the United
CEO Scott Kirby yesterday and he said he
wasn't surprised by the jobs report that
we got on Friday based on how much he
had seen an acceleration in demand into
the summer. Did you feel the same way
that you actually see a reaceleration
rather than some sort of deceleration in
response to higher prices?
>> Yeah, March saw a big inflection upwards
and so March uh you even though the war
was kind of hot and heavy at that point,
we saw a big acceleration both business
and leisure travel demand. So the US
economy uh is roaring it seems to us.
>> Do you think that the inflationary
inputs and what you're experienced in
terms of the costs that you're paying
are also going up uh at an accelerating
pace? uh they're modest to us and maybe
if you're the Fed chairman you think
differently but for us uh the the the
changes and and compensation changes in
input costs uh X fuel or modest
>> meanwhile there has been an issue with
respect to deliveries of planes Boeing
in particular and we've heard of your uh
some of the issues and how that's
crimping plans how do you see that
resolving how much has that put a damper
on some of what you're planning going
forward
>> I give big kudos to Boeing a few years
back they it was not their finest hour
but now they're delivering us a quality
aircraft on time so we're pleased with
what uh Boeing has given us and the Max
7 uh which has been much delayed is uh
seemingly very close to certification
based on what the FA administrator said.
So we're very pleased with how Boeing's
moving along.
>> Meanwhile, we did hear uh from IATA that
you are seeing profits crimped pretty
significantly for airlines. It doesn't
seem like that's what you're saying at
all. It seems like you've been able to
offset and recoup all of the oil price
increases in terms of your other
measures. Have you seen any impact to
your growth trajectory? I know you said
you've got to pull back some of your
expansion and your growth, but with
respect to profitability, have you seen
any kind of deterioration in that?
>> Well, higher fuel does lead to to lower
profits and so really uh the question
becomes for next year. Uh as we get into
the late summer, early fall and it's
it's it's business planning season for
most companies for the following year.
And so where will oil be? What will the
trajectory be for next year? Uh that's
when you'll be able to understand what's
my growth rate next year. How does that
impact everything? Do you think that oil
prices need to come down for your
company for the broad industry to be
okay or do you think that they could
stay here in perpetuity and end up with
a pretty healthy airline sector because
of the demand and consumer's ability to
absorb higher costs?
>> Over the last decade plus, we've seen
airlines be able to adjust to high fuel
environments. We've also seen the high
fuel doesn't last forever. So, it will
come down. The question is when and we
can organize oursel to kind of meet that
glide slope down fuel price uh to
restore profitability. So whether it
returns to where it was last year or if
it stays higher for longer, we can
organize ourselves and it's it's a the
uncertainty is much less than one might
imagine.
>> Andrew Watson, thank you so much for
being with us. That is Andrew Wat, the
chief operating officer of Southwest
talking about how business travel
continues to be strong as people send
their correspondents, their anchors to
places like Rio de Janeiro. Jonathan
Frell,
>> I'm not jealous at all. Doesn't look
like Brammo had a nice weekend on the
beach.
>> Yeah, I mean it looks like Rio's doing
her doing her well.
>> You wear it well, Brammo. It's good to
see you
>> having a good time. Yeah. Let's see if
we come back in a couple of days time.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> Yeah, Lisa, thank you. I get a feeling
she's going to take the week off.
>> No, what a great place for the airline
industry to have this. At the same time,
they're talking about profits are going
to half this year because of full fuel
costs having to jump.
>> Chris Harvey have my favorite phrase of
the last six years. Do you remember
that?
>> Spring break for adults.
>> Spring break for adults
>> coming out of the pandemic.
>> Yeah, it it was a great one. We just
>> Things have changed, haven't they?
>> A little bit.
>> The window on that's closed. Things are
uh things are getting a little tight
nowadays. And you're right. Everyone's
talking about higher prices, but they
still they still go out and spend.
Everyone you talk to, I can't believe
these prices. Can't wait for prices to
come down. Are you spending? Yeah.
>> Makes feels like a stretch though,
Chris.
>> A little bit. At least for me.
>> The president says that's life.
>> It's life.
>> That's life.
>> But it is life. Some of us can't afford
$6,000 tickets to a sports game.
>> That's life. It's semifree. Not free.
Semi free on on television.
>> Going to pay for TV still. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Funny Quinn
has more. Hey Funny.
>> Hey John, thanks. Iranbacked Houthis in
Yemen have declared a ban on Israeli
ships in the Red Sea, threatening a key
bypass route to the straight of Hormuz.
The move comes as the Iran war moves
into a fourth month and hostilities
flare across the region, threatening to
derail the fragile truce.
Open AAI is planning a major platform
overhaul ahead of its IPO as it steps up
competition with rivals including
Anthropic. The Financial Times reporting
the company wants to turn Chat GPT into
a comprehensive super app.
In sports, Alexander Verv has his long-
awaited first Grand Slam title. The
world number three player winning the
men's singles final at the French Open
in a [music] five set thriller. And that
is your Bimber brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in the next hour. Up next on the
program, Wall Street laying out the red
carpet for SpaceX.
>> Why SpaceX public now? We're embarking
on a massive new growth phase and uh we
need capital for that. Another thing is
the the revenue like I also feel pretty
good about like the revenue projections.
>> Up next we'll catch up with Eric and
Ajarian of UBS
session highs. Here's the bounce up by
0.6% 6% on the S&P 500 this morning on
the NASDAQ up by 1.2. Under surveillance
this morning, Wall Street laying out the
red carpet for SpaceX.
>> Why SpaceX public now?
>> We're embarking on a massive new growth
phase and uh we need capital for that.
>> Another thing is the the revenue like I
also feel pretty good about like the
revenue projections like meaning like
[laughter] like before like lab revenue
was a little unstable.
>> Here's the latest this morning. SpaceX
set to begin public trading on Friday.
Wall Street's biggest banks expected to
rake in about $500 million from the
record selling debut. Joining us now to
discuss Eric and Ajarian of UBS. You've
got buy ratings on these guys. It's good
to see you. I'm JP Morgan. I'm Morgan
Stanley on Goldman. How much money is
going to be made this year?
>> Okay, before SpaceX, here's how the
quarter shaping up.
>> Equity capital markets is up 65%.
Like if you if you just run rate what's
happened since Friday for the entirety
of the quarter advisory is up 20 and
debt capital markets is up 15. So I I
think it'll be a um you know happy
holidays for those large [laughter]
bracket banks.
>> So Erica quick question let's just make
believe that SpaceX goes okay but just
okay. Do we have to worry about other
deals getting pushed back or scuttled
for now? what what do we think going
forward?
>> So Chris, that's a great question. What
we're seeing right now is just the top,
right? The capital [snorts] markets
activity has been concentrated on large
mega deals. And what's actually
happening in the pipeline is you still
have a lot of sort of midsize companies
that are waiting to come out.
Additionally, the sponsor community
hasn't really tapped the market at its
all-time highs quite yet. Um and given
that the rate hike that's now priced
into the curb, you would think that now
would be the time to monetize in the
capital market. So there's actually um a
more broadbased look to the pipeline
that I think that if you know some of
these mega deals did just okay, that's
not necessarily going to interrupt the
flow into the market.
>> Okay. One other question. C can you
frame out so the enthusiasm is is almost
as much as the enthusiasm for the Knicks
right now, right? How would you frame
this out? Is this the biggest deal
you've ever seen or is this like it's at
the high end, but I've seen I've seen
better.
>> I mean, let me just take a step back.
We're kind of at like the the valuations
aren't reflecting it, but we're kind of
like a peak bank, right?
>> Right. I mean, this is the biggest IPO
that we've seen. Um, but the rest of the
capital markets activity underneath is
good. Main Street is actually great. The
lend the direct lending data continues
to be superb. Right. And nothing is as
harmful as rates at at zero. Right. So
whatever happens to the curve, the banks
are are are doing okay. Um and and so
yeah, no, I I think it's um it's a good
time to be in financial services right
now, particularly as a bulge bracket US
bank.
>> It's a good time to be Goldman Sachs.
It's a good time to be Morgan Stanley.
Both those names are up by close to 20%
year to date. But then if you listen to
what you've just said and what we've
just seen in those two names, you'd
expect something different maybe from JP
Morgan and Bank of America. they are
down on the air. Why are they not
keeping up with this rally that we've
seen so far here today and those two big
names?
>> So, um that's a great question. I think
part of it is just that Goldman and
Morgan are the purest expression of
capital markets whereas given the war
and um in the Middle East, you're also
worried about the consumer, right? The
consumer stocks are down 20%. And
obviously, you know, uh Chase um and
Bank of America have large credit card
portfolios. So, in a way, I think they
haven't kept up because they're not as
pure of a representation of all the
activity that's going on. That being
said, I do think that JP Morgan and
they're never like underrated, right?
Like they're a little underrated here in
terms of what they can deliver for the
quarter. So, um yeah, no, you you
sometimes you have to root for the
underdog, right?
>> First Jamie Diamond called Elon Musk
Einstein a few years ago. Now, he's
saying he's the Edison of our time. Have
you ever seen Jaime Diamond fawn over
another executive? the way he has been
fawning over Elon Musk.
>> I haven't seen Jamie fawn over
[laughter] anything,
>> but he is.
>> Yeah, for sure. But look, I mean, um,
you know, you gota you you got he knows
where how his bread is buttered, right?
And he is the world's top executive, you
know, for a reason.
>> He's not going to talk to us like that.
We're not clients. No,
>> and that's the major difference.
>> Totally. and and I have spoken to him
before and he'll be like gh reporter no
thank you
>> right
>> but at the same time have you ever seen
him talk to a tech executive like this
in public
>> it's pretty unusual are they lead left
on this because they're acting like they
are
>> no they they're unusual that piece of
it's unusual
>> but look I mean remember like um you
know SpaceX could have you know
continued needs from here as it tries to
expand you know beyond Earth right and
so you know the first Mars IPO who's
going to sign up for that one and the
Mars Exchange. But look, I mean that's
that's the business.
>> You said bet on the underdog. Kind of
laughing because JP Morgan's no
underdog. No. Strange they've become
that though.
>> Yeah. But
>> and that group of stocks.
>> Yeah. But look, I mean, I think that's
an opportunity, right? JP Morgan is
never priced as the underdog, but
Goldman and Morgan have literally gone
like this for this year, right? So, I I
feel like that's a less expensive way
for um folks to invest in this capital
markets renaissance of sorts.
>> Got to slide into the DMs. Is that the
suggestion here?
>> Well, that was going to be my
suggestion. Jamie Diamond didn't get to
Elon Musk's DMs fast enough.
>> Sign up to X.
>> I I don't think Jamie has to slide into
anyone's DMs to be quite [laughter]
frank.
>> Eric, it's good to see you. Thank you.
Appreciate it. Eric and Ajaran there of
UPS. Chris Harvey, good to see you, sir.
Thank you. Chris Harvey of CIBC. Up
next, we'll catch up with Sarah Hun of
Alpine Saxon Awards. Chrisin Love of the
[music] Piper Sandler Group, Nathan
Sheets of City Research, plus Abi Yoda
of JP Morgan Private [music] Bank. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
The market is strong [music]
because the economy is strong overall.
Ultimately, what's going to drive this
market higher is [music] going to be the
AI trade. I think that the entire market
is one trade and I think right now we
are in the boom [music] part of the
trade.
>> Certainly tech or AI has soaked up all
the oxygen in the room here.
>> We're forgetting that there's a lot of
other industries. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts [music]
right now. Your price action scores look
like this. Friday, the losses this
morning. The bounce up by 0.7% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ [music] up by 1.3.
Similar move on the Russell. This
morning, things were looking a little
jittery in the bond market. Yields were
higher across the curve. Things have
settled down. Two's unchanged at 415.
10's at 453. Crude was up 5%. 98 handle
on Brent right now 94 and up just
[music] one percentage point following
some soothing words from the president
of the United States.
>> Yeah, the president entering in terms of
the market in terms of rhetoric some
some nice words saying that Israel and
Iran are looking to an [music] immediate
ceasefire and then it was backed up by
the IRGC according to Fars. The IRGC
declaring an end of their military
operations on Israel. [music]
This very fragile ceasefire that we have
right now in the Middle East does seem
to be holding on, which is kind of crazy
to say. Even though we did have
ballistic missiles heading [music]
towards Israel, Israel striking targets
in Iran. It does seem like at the moment
all [music] sides want to hold on to
this ceasefire.
>> Taking some heat out of the energy
market, bringing yields back in and
helping equities rally just a little bit
more on the S&P [music] 500 and on the
NASDAQ into this through this week. Tons
of economic data. CPI the headline event
on Wednesday [music] and an IPO set to
price later this week. Not just any
ordinary IPO, the [music] biggest
initial public offering this market has
ever seen.
>> This is going to be huge when it comes
to SpaceX on Friday. We were just
talking about about that with Erica and
how all the banks want to get in on this
cuz the fees [music] are going to be
astronomical. Something me and Lisa and
I have been talking about for the past
few weeks. Where are investors taking
money from to make sure that they can
get in [music] on SpaceX, then on
Anthropic, then on Open AI, and how
difficult is the SpaceX IPO going to be
potentially for the market if we get a
really hot CPI print this week?
>> I call it the supply monster. We're
choking on supply. Alphabet coming out
last week with an upsized equity
offering, equity capital [music] raise
of around $85 billion. And the mere
report, I think it's important on
Friday. The mis suggestion in the
Financial Times that Meta was
considering doing the same thing [music]
sent that stock into a nose dive into
the close on Friday. On top of that,
that's just the equity side. Then you've
got the IPOs coming, [music] not just
SpaceX, but Anthropic and OpenAI
potentially later this year. Then you've
got the debt side. Talked about this
number a few times, pricing $1 trillion
of IG debt in this country in near
record times. You've had it on the
equity side, on the debt side, and how
far how close are we, how far away are
we [music] from some real indigestion
here from all that supply coming into
this market on both equity and debt.
>> And you're right to bring up Meta. I
think a telltale, the market didn't
digest it the way they originally
digested Google. What I found so
interesting about Google, 80 billion
wasn't enough. [music] They came back
and said, "Actually, we're going to up
it and do a little bit more, five or six
billion dollars more." But potentially,
there is going to be a point where the
market says, "Okay, [music] we can no
longer tolerate anymore." doing better
this morning, up by 0.7 on the S&P.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods
following a 10% route in chip stocks on
Friday. Nathan Sheets of City raising
his policy rate forecast for global
central banks and Abby Yoda of JP Morgan
on why the market pullback is a healthy
sign. We begin this hour with stocks
bouncing back following the biggest
one-day selloff this year. Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Sax and Woods writing, "June is
busting out all over. The market has
taken the better data so far as a sign
the date the Fed will at the very worst
hike rates once by the end of 26. Sarah
joins us now for more. Sarah, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> We about to go through a period of
indigestion here with all that supply
coming.
>> I would not be surprised. I I mean it
certainly looks that way and if you see
the way the reaction was to your point
on Meta on Friday and the fact that you
know they came out so quickly and said,
"Hey, we're going to raise some equity
before these big IPOs come." I think
there is a there is a concern that there
is some question about how much appetite
there is for a lot of this
>> and on top of that you might see tighter
policy out the Federal Reserve that put
the squeeze on this market big time on
Friday jobs came in hot started to price
in a rate high not for next year but for
this year could that tighten things up
too
>> well I think I mean it's interesting
because if you look at the warp function
I I think it's much more a snapshot of
what the sentiment is today because it
hasn't actually played out very well if
you go back and look at where rates were
pricing out further along the last year
and a half, it's been wrong more than
it's been right. But it definitely gives
you an idea about where people are
thinking right this minute. And right
this minute, that data combination plus
the inflation and the concerns that are
coming this week with inflation was
absolutely one of those moments where
everybody was like, "Oh my god, we're
going for hikes, not cuts."
>> The Federal Reserve so far, at least up
until then, has been a reason to be
bullish. This Fed seems to be behind the
curve compared to other central banks.
The ECB is gearing up for a hike later
this week. The Bank of England might
follow. We're still talking about the
removal of an easing bias and a Fed
going to neutral. Not shifting to a
hawkish bias, but a Fed going to neutral
that wants to articulate to this market
there is equal chance of a rate hike or
a rate cut as our next move. Is that
still constructive?
>> Well, I think it's reality, right?
Because rate hiking rates here isn't
going to solve the problem of oil supply
shocks and that's one of the reasons
that inflation is so high. So is do we
have a big demand problem? Well, high
prices tend to cure demand issues,
right? So, there's there that that is
going to shift of it on itself. And
cutting rates at the moment, you don't
have a labor supply that's in terrible
shape. You don't have an economy that's
in terrible shape. The data has been
pretty good. I think neutral is not a
terrible place to be to be fair, but I
also think that it's it's one of those
things where it's a fine line between
neutral to oh, maybe it's this way or
oh, maybe it's that way. And I think
that there's still a lot of
crosscurrens.
>> How important is going to be this CPI
report this week given how the market
reacted to Friday's jobs number? I think
it's going to be very important and I
think it's going to be grim. I mean, I
think that there's no way that you're
not starting to see some of this bleed
through because energy prices bleed into
everything eventually and that
fertilizer prices bleed into food
prices. There's a lot of things that are
happening because
>> prices are up big time. I mean, it's why
the president went to the third
congressional district in Wisconsin. I
mean, these farmers are dealing with
incredibly high prices,
>> right? And it's one of the things that
doesn't get talked about enough in in
the scheme of things about what else is
is bottlenecked within the straight. But
there are those things also take a long
time to work out because if your prices
are much higher this year to plant and
to a whole lot of other things including
diesel prices which are very high then
that's going that doesn't resolve the
minute the prices come down because
you're spending that money today so you
have to recoup it tomorrow. So I think
that there's an issue there.
>> What does a grim inflation print mean
for the equity market?
>> Also grim,
>> you know, I I don't know because you
would think that it would be but at the
same time the equity market is showing
an enormous amount of resilience. I'm
surprised to see that it's showing some
resilience this morning given the fact
that the Cosby was down over I mean I'm
I'm surprised at how we're we're looking
green already and there's still some
stuff going on.
>> You're expecting some negative follow
through from Friday this morning.
>> Well, I was looking at the Cosby and
thinking that there might be. So I yeah
I think that there is I mean that was
also very stretched situation. I mean
even more stretched you could argue than
the semiconductors in the United States.
But I think that there is I mean I don't
disagree that a pullback is healthy. The
question is, did we get a pullback and
do we now have some calm? Do we have a
lot of chop for the next few weeks?
Maybe we do. That would not be so bad. I
think the concern is that you get
something where things start to go down
and it spirals on itself.
>> What do you think was more important
this morning? The president saying
there's going to be immediate ceasefire
or Jensen Wong saying you should be
excited by this dip.
>> Well, I mean, they're both talking their
own book, right? I mean, and to the
extent that that they would like a
ceasefire, absolutely. I think it's been
very clear that this is something that
they would like to see calmed down a lot
and I think that Jensen completely
believes in Nvidia and thinks it's a
great stock and thinks that it's a great
opportunity. I I don't think that either
one of those things are necessarily
wrong. Whether or not they are meeting
what's actually happening on the ground
is, you know, up to
>> Well, let's talk about what's happening
on the ground. We've been talking about
this for the last two hours now.
>> The Alphabet Capital rates last week and
the mayor suggested the meta was
considering the same in the Financial
Times, sending the stock lower. I just
wonder how much weight I should put on
that price move because that price move
to some might signal, hang on a minute,
this market's starting to push back and
these companies have raised a lot of
money that have funded the gains in the
chip sector and now the stock market's
pushing back. Shouldn't I pay a little
bit more attention to that?
>> I think that there's a lot of things
that are coming up that are going to be
either positive or negative evidence in
that direction. I'm not quite sure we're
there yet. I mean, Meta has had its own
issues with the market and the way the
market looks, what it looks at what
they're doing. So, I'm not sure that
they are the canary in the coal mine,
but I do think that people are raising a
lot of money and all of this capex that
we're talking about is coming from a no
longer cash flow situation and it's
coming from a debt and equity situation
and can they afford to do that? Is that
going to be the bottleneck? Forget
memory, forget some of the capacitor
situation. Is it going to be can we
raise the money fast enough? And I don't
know what the answer is. Yeah.
>> The capital constraints, the potential
for them, the push back in both debt and
equity. You're seeing signs of it
emerging, signs of it building.
>> I think well and I think that that is as
we see what happens with the SpaceX IPO
as we see some of these other massive
equity raises come to market. Can they
be absorbed? Because I think that you
know you wanted to get first out of the
gate which is why that 81 to 85 it's
like well people have a lot of appetite
so we managed to upscale it but there
was also a yield involved. So there was
a there was two different things going
on there. I think we're going to see as
we move forward or how the market
absorbs all of these and it is a good
question and the fact that S&P pushed
back and said you're not getting into
these indices. I think people thought
that there was a natural index and
passive
big demand coming because of that and
now they have to recalibrate that a
little bit. And I'm not sure that that
was the biggest thing, but you just
added that to what was going on Friday.
asked this very same question to Cameron
Dawson at 6:00 a.m. to Chris Harvey at
7:00 a.m. I'll ask it of you at 8:00
a.m. [laughter]
seues in corporate America
>> the most advanced sophisticated seauite
on the planet Alphabet Meta talking
about these upand cominging IPOs those
seues too SpaceX anthropic open AI have
decided that now is a good time to sell
equity what is the argument for
investors to buy it
>> you have to continue to buy the story
that AI is going to continue to be the
most important dominant theme over the
next five years that this is still a
good time to be looking at that I think
the big question exactly is Now we're
raising debt and equity to fund
something that we were funding out of
cash which people were very comfortable
with. How comfortable are they and how
far can that be pushed and we don't know
the answer to that yet. But I do think
that there is an enormous amount of
enthusiasm. I mean look at the space
stocks and look at what they're talking
about doing. It's easy to get caught up
in a story of this is just the beginning
of a long tale. And so you don't have to
you don't have to be so worried about
valuations here. It's really exciting,
but there's always a push and there's
always a push back and then there's
always a question of okay, well, what
does that actually mean and when can I
actually see the return on that if
you're coming to market 20 years after
you've actually been in business and
we're still looking for profits
>> and got to pick your price for the ICO
basically before the re road show even
started. Sarah's going to stick with us.
Sarah Hunt there of Alpine Sax and Woods
equity futures near session highs
bouncing back from Friday's losses up by
0.7% on the S&P with an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonyie. Hey, John. Thank you. Iran
declaring the end of military operations
against Israel. The two countries
exchanging missile strikes overnight.
President Donald Trump telling the
Financial Times Israel will have to
accept [music] any deal between
Washington and Thran because he quote
calls all the shots.
Nvidia and SKH are collaborating on
designing future [music] generations of
memory chips for AI. The announcement
comes as Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong visits
Seoul for meetings with his company's
Korean [music] partners.
And traders fully pricing in a rate hike
by the end of this year following
Friday's blockbuster payrolls report.
[music]
President Trump weighing in.
>> There's no reason to raise interest
rates. I don't want to kill success. We
should actually lower interest rates.
Now, I would like to see rates get lower
because we could build this into the
greatest machine that the world has ever
seen. But you can't do that when
everybody immediately raises interest
rates.
>> President Trump's comments coming ahead
of Fed Chair Wart's first policy meeting
next week. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> and Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, we'll get you some
morning calls. Plus, we'll catch up with
Chrisen Love of Piper Sandler on what
could be the next domino [music] to fall
for private credit. That is next from
New York City with a Nick Smug
strategically placed no matter where you
sit in this studio.
>> Big game. Game three
>> later this evening from New York.
>> I'll be there.
>> You're watching Bloomberg TV.
We're seeing this unwind just out of
these really big overbought conditions.
And what's notable is that we're nowhere
near oversold. Arguably, you could say
that the easy part is over, meaning the
valuation reset is over. And now the
question is, do [music] you still see
earnings upside for these semiconductors
from here?
>> It never feels easy. That's for sure.
Cameron Dawson there of New Edge Wealth
on this equity market. This equity
market this morning, a good morning to
you. Bouncing back on the S&P [music]
500 on the NASDAQ. Here's the bounce. Up
by 7 on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 1.3.
Friday was awful. If you think about how
bad it was moments of stress in this
market, think of April last year.
[music] Worst day since April of last
year for the NASDAQ. Think of the
pandemic, spring 2020. Worst day for
chip stock since spring [music]
2020. and it follows a massive runup in
this equity market.
>> And that's why the president was so
frustrated on Friday with the stock
market declining because he said, "We
just had a great jobs report. The market
[music] should not be pricing in this
hike. He still wanted to see a cut."
Interesting. This morning, we had two
important individuals. First, Jensen
Wong saying stocks are [music] down. Buy
the dip. You can get in. Exciting time
for you. And then second, the president
really, as you mentioned, soothing the
market, saying there's going to be this
immediate ceasefire [music] between
Israel and Iran. and the IRGC coming out
and saying they're ending their military
operation, current military operation
[music] when it comes to Israel.
>> That help bring yields off session highs
twos on Friday. New highs for the year
10's the first close we've seen above
450 in [music] about 2 weeks. 454 this
morning up another basis point on twos
at 415. One more read on inflation ahead
of the Federal Reserve's next meeting
and Kevin Walsh's first meeting next
Wednesday. this coming Wednesday. CPI
[music]
>> CPI this is going to be incredibly
important after we had a very good
strong [music] labor market report. I
mean it was what triple of what people
were expecting. The highest was you know
nothing close to what we got. On top of
that now people are saying potentially
we're going to see a four handle on
inflation. If you were the incom main
Fed chair and basically [music] many
people believe that you were picked for
this job because you expressed an
interest in lowering [music] interest
rates. How do you do that in this
environment? You can.
>> It's going to be a tough office of Kevin
Walsh a weak Wednesday. That's the price
action and the setup for the Federal
Reserve. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Wells Fargo more than
doubling its price target on Micron to
1220, seeing continued upside driven by
greater confidence. Your second [music]
call from Missouo raising its price
target on Sandis to 2200, seeing
potential for an eight-fold [music]
increase in TPUs by 2028. So many balls
out there still. Their stock is up by 4%
in the pre-market. And finally, KPW
[music] downgrading Blackstone secured
lending fund to market perform cited a
company setback in credit quality. Let's
stay on private credit and private
equity too. Redemption requests ramping
up as investors remain uneasy. Chrisin
Love of Piper Sander writing, [music]
"We're not surprised by the continued
redemptions. Private equity needs to be
wiped out for private credit to take
losses." [music] Chrisman joins us now
for more. Chrisen, good morning. It's
good to see you again.
>> Great. Thank you for having me,
Jonathan.
>> Welcome back. Let's talk about what
happened last week and sort of set the
stage for why this conversation has
started again. Partners Group, how
different are the redemptions there
compared to the redemptions we've seen
elsewhere?
>> Yeah, so they're very different where
what we've seen over the last couple of
quarters has been all on the direct
lending side, all private credit. And
Partners Group last week, a Swissbased
firm, they had nearly 10% of private
equity redemptions in their semi-liquid
product. So that's going to be the big
focus I think over the coming weeks when
we start to see more of the redemption
data from Blackstoneone and others where
is it just direct lending or is it
breaking into uh private equity as well?
We we think direct lending that's going
to be several quarters of elevated
redemptions but the other areas have
been pretty strong but private equity
will be a key area.
>> What do you think it is the former or
the latter? So, I think you could see a
pickup in private equity redemptions
because what we've been writing about
for a while is if you're worried about
private credit, private equity needs to
get completely wiped out in order to
private credit to take losses. On the
private credit side, a lot of these
loans are 30 to 40% LTVs, senior
secured. So, you need private equity
valuations to come down materially.
>> Where is the demand for liquidity coming
from?
>> Where is it coming from and what's
driving it? Yeah. So, a lot of it is
coming from international, it's family
offices. I do a a bunch of channel
checks with a lot of financial advisors
and it's it's really not coming from
them. From everything that I've been
seeing there, they're getting tons of
questions from their clients and a lot
of what the financial adviserss are
saying is kind of stay where you are,
stay the course right now, but a lot of
it is that international family office
side. Blue made a comment um several
weeks ago that 50% of the redemptions
are from 1% of their investors. So, it's
not something that's completely
broad-based, but more focused. And then
what you're seeing as well, a little bit
of a gamification of it where similar to
an IPO where if you want five shares,
you're going to ask for 10 knowing that
you're going to get scaled back.
>> Is there a loss of confidence in in the
asset class?
>> I I don't necessarily know if there's a
loss of confidence. I think there's a
lot of uncertainty since September.
There's been just a ton of press on it.
People have been worried and you've seen
these redemptions drive up and one thing
that that we look at is you saw BCR's um
Blackstone's largest product which we
use as a good proxy for the industry as
a whole. If you look at where you have
to break out between sentiment and
performance and on BCR a lot of the
stress or a lot of the headlines started
last September. So that's eight months
ago. and we look at the monthly data,
returns in that private credit product
have been positive seven of the last
eight months and then positive the last
two months.
>> If these vehicles though continue to
have this redemption pressure, could
this be like a snowball effect where it
just gets much worse and broadens out?
So, I I don't think it can get much
worse because the key issue are the 5%
caps. And that's something that's that
we're probably going to see over the
next few weeks where you're you saw
Blackstone last week, 10% redemptions
requests being scaled back to 5%. You're
going to see that over the next several
weeks. But one thing that Blackstoneone
also talked about last week is they are
the redemptions that they're actually
paying out, they're 160% covered by just
repayments and inflows to the fund. So
people will talk about it and compare
this to a GFC scenario, which doesn't
make sense in our eyes because there
isn't a a liquidity issue or a liquidity
crunch because of those redemption caps.
>> So I have a question and you mentioned
two things that I thought were
interesting. one was the 1% and 50% and
also calling it semi-liquid right so
that's one of the issues that I think is
is part of the problem and I can
understand why the first wave came on
the fact that there was so much software
in some of these private credit places
>> it's interesting that 1% owns that much
so they must be pretty big players in
that if they're the big part of the
redemptions but what do you think is
driving this if it's not that the
underlying companies at least on the on
the private credit side are no longer in
as much concerned that they were going
the way of the dodo which is what was
happening with software for a little
while
>> right and I so right now yet the returns
have been good and just looking back the
last five six years it seems every year
we've had an issue where you had COVID
you had the Ukraine war you had um kind
of supply chain problems and now the
Iran war so you're having all these big
macro events rates went from 0 to 5% and
a lot of these private credit funds
reacted very very well but what these
investors are looking at is there's
plenty of uncertainty out there and
taking the software point. It's not what
returns are or what credit quality is
today, but it's looking at what's h
going to happen 12 18 months down the
road. And the one area that we're we're
worried about and watching very closely
are going to be these software
refinances that are going to happen 2027
to 2029 because there's going to there's
going to be some tough conversations
where is private equity going to inject
more capital into these or are they
going to walk away and hand these
companies back to the lender. So I think
that's going to be the key thing to
watch down the road. So unfortunately
for investors right now, it's it's not
going to be resolved over the next
quarter or two. You're probably going to
get results going to be probably pretty
good from the alternative side, but
people are looking farther out and
that's where a lot of the the stress and
the worry is coming from.
>> Well, and I think that's also something
that's very hard to game out because you
get these popups of flares of concern.
And I would argue that if we didn't have
the other things that were going on like
the Iran war and what's going on with
energy, this would be a bigger
conversation because people would get
upset about it then but then it just
went away and now it comes back up and
then we'll see if it goes away again.
Where do you think the the concern level
settles in or do we stay at an elevated
level?
>> Yeah. Well, it's interesting how the
concern level has ebbed and flowed where
you had last September withricolor and
first brands and and those were bank
syndicated loans. So, we're away from
the the private credit players, but then
you had companies report results,
everything's fine. Then you get the
redemptions, everybody's worried, and
now you're kind of rinse and repeat
where you had pretty good earnings
coming out of the first quarter. Now,
we're going through the redemption wave
again. So, it's going to eb and flow,
but it's it's just going to be something
that we're going to be watching over the
next kind of several months and several
quarters.
>> Chris, you're not alone. That's for
sure. We're all watching. It's good to
see you. Thank you, buddy. As always,
Chris Ben Love there of Piper Sandler.
As we're having this conversation, this
headline crossed just moments ago. It
came from Amazon kicking off a five-part
Canadian dollar high-grade bond
offering. Amazon, you remember, Alphabet
went on a 4-month, $60 billion debt
bench not so long ago. And included in
that debt bench was an offering in
Canadian dollars around early May, just
looking for pockets of liquidity in
different currencies and different pools
of capital to raise more money. And
we're seeing this on the debt side.
again this morning is see on the equity
side as well.
>> It's like you manifested this. You were
saying that we continuously see these
offerings and we're seeing it in both
debt [music] and equity and at some
point is it going to be just too much
for the market to digest?
>> Waiting to see if Meta follows through
on that FT report that we saw on Friday.
Coming up next we'll catch up with
Nathan Sheets of City on the economic
risk [music] that could lead to a global
rate hiking cycle.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
Your price action 60 minutes [music] out
from the opening bell shaping up as
follows. On the S&P 500 following the
worst day of the year, bouncing back 8%
on the NASDAQ 100 following the worst
day since April last year. Bouncing back
1.5% [music] on the Russell this morning
doing better up by 1.4% 4% heading into
a monster IPO later on this week from
SpaceX. In the bond [music] market,
twos, 10, 30s, twos, new highs for the
year. Yields at the moment settling
down, down two basis points. Now, better
news, 413. Yields [music] were higher
earlier on in the session. A new high on
a 10-year at least for the last two
weeks, closing [music] back above 450,
450,224. Yields again down by just a
single basis point this morning. So,
doing better on the bond market front,
supported by this move in crude. Crude
was up to 98 on Brent. It's back down to
94. Was up 5%, now up just one. There
were fresh strikes over the weekend
between Israel and Iran. The sequencing
of events sounds a little something like
this. Israel going after Lebanon, Iran
going after Israel, the president
telling Israel not to do anything,
Israel doing something, then the
president saying we're going to have a
ceasefire, and then Iran saying the
operation is over.
>> Okay. Yeah, that's exact timeline of
what happened. But I think it's [music]
important to note that the president
according to the FT said he was calling
all the shots and then Israel decided to
make that strike and [music] that is why
it felt like for a moment there the
president was losing some of his
influence on Israel. Everyone has a say
in [music] this war. This is why this
feels so different than last year's
liberation day when the president had
full control of them on the lever and
can dial up or dial down the rhetoric.
There's three and many more parties and
some even now are joining [music] when
it comes to the Houthis and them not
allowing Israeli vessels. Does this
stretch potentially [music] to more
vessels that the Houthis are going to
potentially go after Bab Elman Deb
Strait? [music] Lot of risk but at the
moment the president saying Israel and
Iran looking to do an immediate
ceasefire. IRGC basically confirming
that and that has smoothed over the
concerns for this morning.
>> Things were looking a little bit fragile
at one point earlier on this morning
around 4:00 a.m. when crude topped.
We've pulled back since those levels.
We're getting these headlines now from
Amazon. Wanted to share this with you
once again just in case you missed it.
The headline dropped just moments ago
that Amazon is going on a fivepart debt
offering in Canadian dollars. It
stretches from anywhere between 3
[music] years out to 30. This debt
offering follows Alphabet's effort
earlier on this year. They had an
offering in Canadian dollars around May.
They went on a $60 billion 4month debt
binge. That was on the debt side. And
then Alphabet of course followed that up
on the equity side of things with
[music] an $85 billion equity capital
raise. So put it all together, massive
offerings on the debt side, big
offerings on the equity side, more IPOs
coming up on the horizon. That's some
crowding gap we need to think about.
[music] This came from Jim Zelta of
Apollo on this program just last week.
You were seeing potentially long-term
crowding out of this massive [music]
longduration capex boom around the globe
and the impact on guess what on
government debt yields. Sarah Hunt still
with us. Sarah, your thoughts on that?
If we're going to see some crowding out,
it's the sovereign that might be
vulnerable here.
>> It's a very big market and it could be
one of the sources of cash. The question
will be I mean it's it ties into a
couple of different things. Where do
rates go? Because people feel very
comfortable still with US sovereigns,
right? Other sovereigns it might be you
saw in the last couple of times we had
any kind of sovereign problem. It wasn't
usually in the US. It's usually outside
the US. So I don't think it's so much
the US. I think but there is room to say
you're looking to raise a whole lot of
money and a whole lot of debt. Where is
that going to come from? And you know
the ECB may be hiking rates. Maybe
they're also maybe that will help a
little bit. I don't know. We'll see how
that goes.
>> How accommodative is this Federal
Reserve going to be? Investors gearing
up for a key stretch of economic data.
Inflation coming on Wednesday. Mike McKe
has a preview. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. It is going to be a
very big week. I was uh thinking when
you were looking through the market
boards, I wonder how much the markets
are going to look like today's numbers
when we get to Friday. Uh we've got
inflation week ahead of us, which is
going to be the key week for Fed policy
makers. We don't get to hear from them,
but we do have the New York Fed
expectations today and the University of
Michigan expectations on Friday. And the
Fed keeps a close eye on inflation
expectations. In between, we get CPI and
PPI. and the CPI on a year-over-year
basis expected to jump over 4%. If we
get something like that, it's certainly
going to catch people's attentions in
the market. And maybe one reason that
we're already seeing bonds go up because
they're anticipating Fed rate increases
and they're looking ahead to this CPI
number. As I mentioned, no Fed speak
this week. You talked about it blackout
week ahead of the Fed decision, but we
have had a number of Fed speakers
express concern about the way we're
going with inflation. Beth Hammock, Mary
Dailyaly, uh Tom Barkin even, who
usually is very neutral since AI may be
pressuring the neutral rate. In other
words, moving it higher as a lot of
investment goes into AI buildouts. And
Lori Logan, who is definitely a hawk,
saying a hike may be necessary before
the end of the year. So, we're going to
keep an eye on that. Uh, I might mention
one thing that's not on the calendar is
another Supreme Court decision day on
Thursday. We're still waiting for that
Trump versus Cook decision and that
could have a major impact on what people
think about the Fed. And of course, the
first Fed meeting with Kevin Worsh as
chair comes up in about 10 days on the
16th and 17th. We'll get the decision on
the 17th. They're not going to do
anything. But how is Kevin Worsh going
to portray the economy and the outlook
for rates going forward? A lot to layer
on top of the SpaceX, on top of the war,
and on top of the New York Knicks.
>> What a crazy week the next week might be
on top of the New York Knicks. Of
course, Mike McKe. Thank you, sir. Mike
mentioned Governor Cook. Governor Cook
might have some implications for
Governor Powell, who's still on the
committee.
>> That's exactly where my mind went.
depending what the Supreme Court does.
What does this mean in terms of how Jay
Powell thinks about whether or not or
for how long he's going to stay as a
governor? Because remember this is not
forever. He wants to leave at some
point. He wants to wait for all these
loose ends to be tied up and that is a
key one.
>> Nathan Sheets of City writing the
following markets now see almost a full
hike from the Fed by year end, nearly
three hikes from the ECB and two hikes
from the Bank of England. We've raised
our year-end forecast for policy rates
in 16 of the 27 central banks that we
forecast. Nathan joins us now for more.
Nathan, welcome to the program. Does
that sound a little bit like 2022 to
you?
>> I think there's some remarkable uh
similarities here where uh uh we're
seeing uh distinct upside pressures on
inflation and central banks uh around
the world are debating about what uh to
do about it. Now, where it's different
than 2022 is that they have that
previous experience of miscalculating
those inflation pressures. And I think
what we're seeing in the markets and as
we write down our expectations for
central banks is we think they're not
going to repeat those mistakes that they
made in the previous episode. And
central banks are likely to be more
aggressive. And you're not going to hear
that transitory word uttered, I think,
by a single central bank over the coming
year.
>> Conditioned to make a different mistake
perhaps. Nathan, I'll ask you the
question more directly. The risk last
time was a dovish policy mistake. Do you
think the risk this time might be a
hawkish one? I'm thinking more about the
ECB. With that question in mind,
>> well, uh I think as a general
proposition where the markets are
pricing and where the markets are seeing
the balance of the rest is is about
right. But there are some important
exceptions there and I think uh the ECB
as you uh point out is a key one and
it's one that we're quite concerned
about and it's kind of a deeper
examination of uh that previous episode
and you may recall in 2022
early in the year we had in at city were
getting very bold up on European growth.
Europe was coming out of the pandemic.
If we were expecting the reopening trade
to prevail, there's a lot of underlying
domestic demand in the economy and we
see that as a key for driving the
inflation in Europe that occurred and uh
we do worry that there may not be as
much underlying momentum in the Euro
area economy in this episode and that
the ECB at a minimum we think they need
to be pretty cautious here with rate
hikes. uh we've pencled in a couple
because we think that's what they're
most likely to do, but we're pleading
with them, please be careful here and
not uh over extrapolate, so to speak,
those previous lessons.
>> Well, Nathan, what do you think of the
fact that the ECB, at least one member's
talking about that, forget June, we're
going to hike again. They're talking
about two in a row.
>> Well, uh that is that is our call. And
again, it's a positive call. It's not a
normative call that once they've moved
uh in June and they've declared that the
conditions are necessary for rate hikes,
we think that that argument is likely to
prevail again uh at their following July
meeting. So we have uh we do have two in
a row. uh were worried uh that the ECB
uh in particular uh may be overly
aggressive and as Jonathan said uh
overlearn those previous lessons.
>> So Nathan, you've got the ECB hiking but
our friend Andrew has got the Federal
Reserve cutting which feels like quite
an unusual moment. How tense are the
meetings at city right now when you
discuss the outlook for rates at the
Fed?
>> Well, uh let me put it this way. When I
was at the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernani
used to say that if two people agree all
the time, then one of them's redundant.
And uh we certainly don't have that
problem at uh at City Economics where we
do have a variety of views. uh and as
you point out uh uh our European team is
uh is a little uh cautious on the
underlying growth dynamic but definitely
sees the ECB moving and uh uh our US
team is arguing for the United States
that in coming months we're likely to
see some kind of a deal on Iran and uh
in parallel we're likely to see some
easing in the labor markets that's going
to trigger a pivot from the Federal
Reserve. Uh I think there are a lot of
conditions that yet need to uh fall into
place for that US call to materialize.
Uh but as Kevin War takes the helm uh of
the economy and uh the consumer is a
little bit softer than before. Uh uh our
US team is quite concerned uh about
where rates may head. Nathan, that
dubtales really nicely into my question,
which is what do you think the
communication policy changes may be as
we look forward to a different chair and
we look forward to do we get a dot plot,
do we not get a dot plot, where's your
dot, all that sort of stuff. How do you
see that playing out in the near term?
Well, uh, I do believe that deep in
Kevin Walsh's DNA is a belief that the
Fed uh, talks too much and that, uh,
through, uh, its, uh, uh,
overcommunication, if you will. The Fed
creates volatility for the market rather
than understanding uh, by the market.
And uh uh I think that you'll see him uh
at least seek to take steps to reduce
the number of speeches, maybe simplify
uh the SCP. Uh I think another
meaningful possibility is, as you
recall, Ben Bernani and Janet Yellen had
press conferences only once a quarter,
not after every uh uh meeting. and uh uh
Jay Pal instituted the every meeting
practice and Kevin Walsh may uh may roll
that back. Uh I think there could also
be some changes in the way that the Fed
talks about the inflation target. Uh I
think 2% is a noble objective for
inflation. But maybe you'll see Kevin
War try to fuzz up a little bit which
target which which inflation index is
precisely the the the the target and
instead talk about 2% in underlying
inflation and I think he's done that uh
already at least a bit uh with his
references to trim mean uh uh inflation.
Inflation after all is a choice. Nathan,
it's good to see you. Thank you. Nathan
Sheets there of City. Appreciate it. Not
trying to start a fight between Nathan
and Andrew Henhorse. Andrew looking for
cuts still later this year. How high is
the bar right now? Is the bar higher for
hikes or cuts in 2026?
>> I still think it's higher for hikes. I I
don't think that we're going to get a
cut, but I think it's higher for hikes
because that just the regime change
alone as opposed to just saying we don't
know which direction we're going seems
like a big move or a bigger move than
we're going to stay in this middle
ground or maybe towards the let's make
sure the labor market's okay kind of
thing.
>> The argument I've heard I heard this
from Mattless Elliott at Deutsche Bank
now the base case over at BMP Parabar is
that you can basically say something
like this. I'm not here saying that I'm
worried about inflation pressure coming
from the labor market. I'm here saying
the labor market's no longer a reason to
worry, at least to the downside. And we
cut rates three times last year. That
was insurance. Let's take it back. Let's
take back some of that insurance. We
didn't need those cuts. Now we can hike
a few times. What do you make of that
argument this morning? I think it would
be an easier argument to make if wage
gains were keeping up with inflation and
the fact that there is a little bit that
that you don't see that kind of labor
inflation that you might see that you
don't necessarily need to take those
emergency or those you know insurance
cuts off the table. I think it's harder
to make that argument at this moment if
wages start to move. I think it's a
different it's a different game. And
there's, you know, the labor numbers are
also really hard to parse because they
keep changing some of the formulations
and it's hard to say what's normal now
versus what's normal a year ago. So I
think that that's really going to be
it's going to end up being more about
where wages go and how that and how
people are keeping up with inflation
because that's part of the problem too.
>> Kevin Walsh, over to you, the Fed chair,
his first meeting a week away. Let's
give an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. [music] Big tech
continuing its massive debt binge.
Amazon kicking off a five-part Canadian
dollar bond sale this morning. Back in
March, the online retailer raised about
$37 billion in the US and nearly $17
billion in Europe.
Apple's worldwide developers conference
kicking off today in Certino,
California. The focus will be on the
company's artificial intelligence
strategy. [music] The event comes 2
years after its first AI rollout was
plagued by subpar technology and [music]
delayed features.
If you want to go to game three of the
NBA finals tonight, little cost you. The
average price for a ticket is about
$8,000. Anyrie asked President Trump
what he thought of the skyh high prices.
>> Well, I know, but they can watch it on
television. It's sort of semifree to
watch it on television, but that's the
way life goes.
>> Trump will be at Madison Square Garden
for tonight's game. Watch parties
outside the garden have been cancelled
for security reasons. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. and Marie will be
there too.
>> Yes, for work. I'm covering the
president. But you know what? I'll be
reporting on and be able to see who paid
>> these insane prices for tickets, which
Josh Hart, by the way, called them crazy
and ridiculous.
>> For work, which is Brammo?
>> It is for work.
>> She goes to Brazil for work.
>> It is for work,
>> you know. Yes, sure.
>> It is for work
>> with the Knicks tonight for work.
Bremo's in Brazil for work. I'll be in
bed getting ready for work. Up next on a
program setting you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Abi Yoda of JP Morgan
Private Bank raising her target on the
S&P
You have a very [music] broad equity
market. There are good there are always
good valuations in the equity market.
Does that mean that you should be buying
the the froth and speculation? No. I
that that's not our thing. Are there
lots of good risk awards out there?
Yeah, there's still plenty of
opportunities, but I just [music] this
is not the time to light your hair on
fire.
>> Chris Harvey of CIBC on this equity
market following the biggest one day
slide. biggest one day sell off we've
seen so far this year in Friday's
session this morning. Here's the bounce
going into the cash open about 40
minutes away. Equities high [music] by
0.8% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 1.6.
Abby Yoda of JP Morgan Private Bank
writing the stalling in the AI
infrastructure trade is a healthy reset
underpinned by extraordinary earnings.
We have revised up our midyear target
from 7,800 to 8200. Abby joins us now
for more. Abby, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Good morning. Good to see you.
>> Let's get into the difference between
healthy and unhealthy. What does what
makes this healthy this morning?
>> The we have to keep in mind the runup to
this, right? Like this was a really
torid like rebound from the lows in
March, right? Which is a very, you know,
shallow pullback considering what was
going on in the Middle East. But I mean
semiconductors were up like 75% year to
date and 95% since the low, right? So to
have this pullback on Friday, you know,
is somewhat healthy. Again, it's being
under also their performance is
underpinned by really really strong
earnings growth, right? Like even X the
Mag 7 technology grew 50% year-over-year
in one Q. That's the fastest growth rate
since the global financial crisis. So
just very very strong.
>> Can things be too good? Peak earnings
growth, those kind of things. Could
things be too good?
>> I think that's the I mean obviously
that's the question, right? I think
that's what the market's trying to sniff
out right now. Like what is the
longevity of this, right? you know,
especially when it comes to these memory
chip companies, right, which tend to be
obviously very cyclical in nature and
very short-lived, right? You usually
have a four quarter cycle. And now the
question becomes, okay, is this double
that? Like, is this an eight quarter
thing now? Like that, I think, is the
big question right now. And you're
seeing partnerships and you're seeing a
lot of change in the business structure
of those companies to make the argument
that that probably is the case.
>> If it's all about earnings, what's going
to be the risk to getting to 8,200? I
think it's going to be the inflation and
interest rate outlook, right? Like I
think that's, you know, really where you
start to see pressure in the S&P 500
from a valuation perspective. Now, we
did take our valuation target down. We
had 22 to 22 and a half and now we're at
21 times. Was basically flat from where
we are today. So earnings is really
driving all that growth in terms of our
our our target to 8,200. And I really
think it's going to be the narrative
around what happens from interest rates
and what the Fed is going to do in terms
of their outlook. We have them on hold
for the year. So that's kind of, you
know,
>> but the market is pricing in now a hike.
>> Yes. Right. And the market's kind of
digesting it. I mean, not really. Like
obviously last week was a bit of a
momentum on wine, but for the most part,
I think if you if you do obviously we
have a very important inflation print
this week. What happens with that and
what happens with the volatility of
interest rates is very important too
because that's actually been rather
subdued. Even though you've seen
interest rates move up the way that we
have, the volatility of interest rates
has been relatively benign. And that's
why I think the market was able to
digest it over the last month.
>> To your point about um the memory stocks
and some of those places that we think
of as more commodity-like in the tech
space and things that used to be tied
much more to the consumer. I think
there's a big question now about what
does that mean? Because normally when
commodities are over earning, nobody
gives them credit for it because the
assumption is that that's going to
change. So then it becomes where do we
go from here and have they become a
different part of the tech stack than
they were when you were banking on
personal items for that memory cycle to
happen
>> right like are I think the big question
for memory not to get into like the
weeds of it is are they become more are
they becoming more foundry like right
where they're making these bespoke
things for this build out and I think it
really just argues like I mean it's an
all hands-on deck type of situation
whether it's power energy you know the
inputs that go into the infrastructure
trade and again why that trade continues
to work three and a half years into this
into this buildout right since since we
had the launch of these chat bots I
think is part of the question right like
now we're reaching this new phase with
aentic AI where you need the
coordination between these agents and
that's really where the memory starts to
come in and this has all just come to
fruition really over the last couple of
months so that's the big question
>> another big question we've been asking
throughout the whole this morning is
whether this market can handle the
amount of supply that's
the IPOs, the equity capital raising,
not just at Alphabet, but reportedly
maybe even coming from Meta
>> in the next few weeks also. Watch this
space. We've got no idea. But Abby, from
your perspective, can we stomach that?
>> We can stomach it. I want to acknowledge
though that it is a step function change
different from what we've experienced
over the last several decades, right?
Like I I can't imagine how many people
have been on the show talking about how
there's scarcity in terms of public
equities and it's a declining it's a
shrinkage, right? and that was overtaken
by private markets and this is a very
very different scenario than what we've
experienced since like the '9s for
example. However, obviously the float
percentage that they're floating is very
important. Um, and you also have to
think about just from the demand side,
like what's the demand side, right?
Buybacks supposed to be, you know,
projected to be north of $1.5 trillion
this year, right? That's that growth is
slowing, but it's still a huge nominal
amount. You have consumer demand. You
have M&A, right? So, there are all of
these different things that make it
digestible to a certain extent, but it
is again a different from a sentiment
perspective.
>> Was Friday the dip? Is that it? Is it
over?
>> It looks like it this morning, right?
Even with these headlines around Iran, I
think that's the thing though. I think
that's something to keep in mind that
we've learned, you know, pretty much in
size since co is that these dips tend to
be shortlived, particularly when you
have earnings that are driving that.
>> We'll see if this one is NASDAQ futures
this morning up by 1.6%. Abby, good to
see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Thanks for being here. Abby Yoda there
of JP Morgan Private Bank. Special
thanks to Sarah Hunt at Vampire Sax and
Wood. Sarah, thank you. Quote of the
weekend, I think it was Sid Prabu out on
X. Remember all the fears that AI were
coming for jobs and then jobs came for
AI. Do you like that? I thought it was a
fantastic quote over the weekend. a
blowout payrolls report taking a bite
out of this equity market
>> and some people are saying how it's
actually cheaper to hire humans than to
run these AI models and potentially
that's the environment we're in right
now a blowout jobs report the inflation
print this week is going to be so
important
>> CPI on Wednesday ahead of a massive the
biggest IPO we have ever seen SpaceX on
deck at the back end of the week heading
into the Federal Reserve meeting Kevin
Walsh's first meeting chair Walsh down
in Washington DC a week away coming up
tomorrow Jack Kefrey of JP JP Morgan,
George Sales of Deutsche Bank, David Se
of Neora, Nisha Patel of Parametric from
New York City this morning. Good morning
to you all. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.